[ 0:00:07.000 ---> 0:12:23.000 ] Speaker A : So thank you all for being here. I'm Daniel, been part of Arundao basically from the start. And I'm going to show you a little bit. This is the vision that we're working on. Would love your feedback, your attention. This is the first time ever, this is seeing the public light. So very much hoping to get your feedback and thoughts and opinions and suggestions, et cetera, on how to improve this. So the idea of arendao the business model, the concept that we've been going towards is this idea of a venture studio building the future of work. And I'm going to tell you a little bit what that means. But first, starting with why did we started on this journey? Why does it matter for us? And what we're seeing is that human collaboration is fundamentally toxic. Leaders are unhappy, workers are unhappy. Essentially, the world of work is broken and we spend more waking hours at work than with our partners or friends or lovers, than having fun, than enjoying ourselves and so on. And I mean that contrast is because really, for the large majority of people in the planet, work is a chore. It's not a vocation, it's not a passion, it's not a place to grow and enjoy themselves, but it's a tremendous drag and is causing tremendous disappointment, disillusionment, lack of mental health issues and so on. And although Web free has made tremendous strides or tremendous attempts trying to fix this, there is still a long way to go for sure. And while work is broken, and we know it's been broken for a while, the studies are not necessarily recent, there hasn't been a lot of progress. And what we're seeing is that traditional collaboration technologies stop optimizing for the wrong things, is we're trying to make tasks more and more efficient instead of making teams more effective. And the issue is, when people are disengaged, it doesn't matter how much you enable them to complete a task, they just don't want to complete the task and they don't care. And they're not putting their attention, their passion, their ideas into it. They are mostly looking through the window, texting in their phone or just cannot wait to get out of work. We have up to 16% of people who are in average who are working against the company, who actually have become toxic. While we have that tremendously disappointing scenario, then we have the rise of bossware or essentially espionage tools turned against our employees. An issue that's become even worse with remote work. And this exacerbates the problem. The more we try to control people, the more we try to monitor them, use pass keys in the doors, figure out how much time they're spending in the keyboard, and so on. The more people feel like coxed in a machine, or animals just in the road of the avatar, and it's not fundamentally motivating, we just exacerbate that feedback loop. However, the fundamentals of collaboration are really changing with the rise of remote and hybrid work with freelancing and the long tail of contribution that obviously is very important in DAOs as we have Bounties and these other different systems. To leverage the community, the increased usage of autonomous teams and decentralized organizations, the role that AI is playing, and obviously token incentives and the ownership and different design systems that we can do for incentivization and ownership that are coming not just to shake, but to really disrupt the way we've been working. So what we believe is that in this future, that is hyperconnected, that is global, that is remote first, we're not just going to a small improvement upon how organizations have operated, but to fundamentally new models of working. And this is a gigantic market. So not only like the small Nascent Dow market or so on, but we really believe that there is a big movement where both from the web three angle and the web two or more traditional organizations angle, we're moving towards a very different future than the way we have been collaborating on till now. Our thesis where our research is pointing us is that the future of work is not Solopreneurs nor corporations, but swarms. And what we mean by swarms is network of autonomous teams where people feel intrinsically motivated and where these teams can rapidly contract with one another. They can come together to achieve scale because they are small nimble teams with ownership, with intrinsic motivation. They can also explore new opportunities way faster than traditional corporations can. So it's a method that enables more innovation, faster speed, faster route to market, more proximity with customers. But that by coming together we can also enable economies of scope essentially that once you have a relationship you can understand the needs of the counterparty and offer them more and more things to satisfy their needs. And as well enables servicing the needs of customers and users at scale. As such, based on this vision or the mission that we're having is to unlock human potential by empowering digital swarms through a modular product ecosystem of swarm tech. And we aim to orchestrate these by arendao facilitating the rise of these modular product ecosystems, facilitating the rise of swarms, facilitating the transition both of traditional organizations and digital first organizations to move and adopt these frameworks that are already emerging, wanting to happen, but where the fundamental enablers are still missing in many cases. And we aim to do that through this model of the Venture Studio. So. Why? Venture Studios. And a little bit on a Venture Studio is fundamentally a way to go beyond what is incubation and instead of that have a group of people that together are building ventures where you can have the right expertise applied at the right moment. So you can have, for example, an expert designer that comes at the moment that you need. An expert designer does that piece of work and then the venture can mature and move to the next stage where other people work on it. So in the same way that we're seeing the decentralization of larger organizations, this is also moving away from a founder centric mental model for startups that puts tremendous burden on founders and with all the mental health consequences, dependency on them, and also inequalities that arise from it. And instead of that, moving from a more collective collaborative model of entrepreneurship. And we already see this trend rising even outside of web three. So we're taking these patterns and just applying it to create an structured program to facilitate the emergence of ventures so we can reinvest all the learnings that we get. The venture journey that we're thinking is launching a cohort of research fellowships where we can offer stpend for aspiring entrepreneurs to dig deep into problems. So it's not only those who have the flexibility of a job that allows them to do this on the side, but then by consequence have to move slow. Or those who are financially wealthy and can afford a few months without work. But we want to democratize the access to research problems and deeply understand them so we don't have to rush into building solutions, but can really understand what needs to be built. Then the venture formation program where we can put a little bit of capital in the ventures, but mostly a lot of support from the network of ventures, from the ecosystem so we can advance how they are developing through that help to develop a venture portfolio where we can start to get these teams to become fully autonomous, running their own ventures and collaborating with others. The more they start to collaborate with others. And we are using these to power the thesis of modularity and composability. So that the modular product ecosystem essentially how all of these different pieces of software can come together and facilitate more complex value propositions. Because what people need are ways to better organize. They don't need just one tool, they need the way to better organize and that comes together from bringing multiple tools together. Now, the way for these tools to really work together needs to be that the tool makers themselves need to collaborate and they need to have sharing incentives so that's when we're coming to the venture ecosystem, through that we can enable product integrations, cross selling and equally starting to take some of the components from these ventures, refactor them and make them their own independent ventures that are enabling infrastructure and the whole thing can evolve into some sort of higher of the future of work. For those who are familiar, there is a bunch of us here, there is way more people to show but the key is that the people that we're gathering around us are those who are really passionate about reinventing organizations and creating a better future for work. In the last year since we started really building and transitioned from just doing pure research where we are Is. We have four autonomous teams, each building a modular product. We have managed to get these solutions used by multiple of the most prominent organizations in Web Three. We're slowly starting to explore web Two. We are over 30 contributors who are regularly showing up and building this vision. And we are building a brand positioning as web free thought leaders, thanks to sharing open research and sharing insights and sharing learnings all the time. All of these with Sear investment raised to date. So we'll soon be preparing for a fundraise to accelerate this vision and bring others and also be able to sustain ourselves and others in working towards this future. To leave you with the thought is that it takes a swarm to build a swarm. So recap. We need cross venture ownership to incentivize collaboration so we can be intentional about this modularity and composability. We're going to be sharing learnings across these ventures and doing more and more research so we can compound the R and D and offer disruptive solutions rather than the incremental. Just focus on individual efficiency that web to tech is stuck on. We believe in small and autonomous teams because that offers a sense of belonging, a sense of meaningful impact that you can have, as well as rapid iteration and user centricity. And we leverage an ecosystem of platforms and services so we can focus on product innovation and not only on operations. The invitation for all of you who are not part of Arundao already is to join us. You can do so by starting a venture with us. Join with your venture as long as it's related with this topic, of course. And also to contribute to Arendao itself as a platform, as an ecosystem for ventures taken way too long to share this. We'll have to cut it down in the future. But if you have any comments, feedbacks, suggestions on how to improve it, you're interested in collaborating, please reach out to us. You know where to find us, we're here and so on.
[ 0:12:23.000 ---> 0:12:54.000 ] Speaker B : I think that was pretty bang on timing. Thank you very much. Daniel, I'm going to ask to stick with you for a minute, if we can, just to run through some of the things that are happening most recently on Rndao, just the H One 2023 update. Things like what ventures are involved at the moment, where we at with fundraising, and maybe a little talk about some of the talks that we're hosting and R and Dao accelerator, et cetera. As much as you can do in five minutes. I'm really taking one.
[ 0:12:55.000 ---> 0:16:58.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, sure. So we started this year as quite small team. Since we have had two more ventures started, we'll be showing you a little bit. They'll be presenting soon after. We have also significantly grown the size of the core community, and by that I mean those who are every week contributing to the ventures or to our endow itself. We also started this year with quite a bit of baggage in what had been the core team that started Arundao. And we had fundamentally different visions that, despite our efforts, escalated into more and more tension, which resulted in a separation of the team. Some contributors left to continue their other pursuits, while the team that remained doubled down as a result of that. We are also a lot more aligned on this vision. Those who have started, and let me share a little bit about the theory of how this works. But if you think about an innovation curve, and it looks like those bell curves, you will always have a radical edge. People doing something very, very extreme, but that will always be very small. This is, for example, if somebody is interested in personal development, this is the people who leaves all their material possessions, they move to a monastery and meditate all day. It's very radical. It advances that idea of personal development to the extreme, but the amount of people it can impact is very few. However, it is inspirational on the other side. If you go to the mainstream and you try to, for example, advocate for personal development in a corporation, you're going to have to be a lot more conservative. But because of the scale, you can impact many more people. Where we're trying to position Arundao is in the middle of these two polarities. We're not right now working on building the post capitalistic futuristic economy. We really support those efforts we believe are fantastic. But what we're trying to do is be a little bit in the middle, where we can build solutions that are scalable, that are financially sustainable, so more and more people can join these and where we can leverage the traditional capital flows to help us scale this vision. It's a delicate balancing act and it will require constant thinking and constant sensing and iteration to make sure that we're staying in the right place. The important message here is that the vision and ultimately the mission is bigger than ourselves, and it will require people on both sides of this divide that are advancing it in their own ways. We seek to collaborate with them and with those who want to position themselves in the same middle point. Ideally, we want to work together and join forces. So as such, we are now preparing for a fundraise. We have now a set of ventures that are starting to show traction. You'll hear more about them soon. We believe that we're starting to show how these can be a collaborative ecosystem and we can actually build sustainable business models that hopefully can generate revenue scale and increase their impact. Thanks to doing so. The fundraise itself will mean that we'll have to bring a whole other group of stakeholders into Dao. And as such, we'll have to evolve our governance. And finally, we'll have the opportunity to play with some of the more innovative forms of multi stakeholder governance that you might have seen myself or others blabbing about in Twitter. So plenty of exciting opportunities to play, but as well, plenty of challenges in the road ahead.
[ 0:17:01.000 ---> 0:17:24.000 ] Speaker B : Okay. Thank you, Daniel. We're going to try and turn now and talk to some of our sarcast or allow them to talk to us, I should say. Katerina from Together Crew. We'd love to start with you if possible. Yeah, so take it away. I'll try and keep it to check in in about ten minutes.
[ 0:17:25.000 ---> 0:22:37.000 ] Speaker C : Perfect. I do have a couple of slides because I don't know who has seen the platform before, so I could share that it's not something extensive. Let me just share my screen while I get this going. So Together Who started as I said last year, we had our kickoff, and it started with the idea about how can we actually create successful communities or other better ways of doing this right now. And it was especially focused on understanding when a community is successful in terms of metrics, which then leads to once you know if it's successful, yes or no, what type of activities somebody can do to make it more successful. If it's not, the larger question behind this is also, well, can we have ecosystem metrics? Can we understand how one dow influences the other dow? Can we map the whole webtree ecosystem and for this kind of pick out positive spirals that are happening within webtree and can we stop kind of vicious cycles happening, but it's kind of the larger vision that is happening. We started with Research Way a long time ago and published an article on how to measure healthy communities. Let me just post this on this. Daniel can be quicker in finding the link and putting it in the right here, that is. So that article then set the basis for what we wanted to build. The team changed a lot. So from the original, let's say ten people who were at the kickoff call like last year, two were main, which is Daniel and I. People came and go, and that's part of the venture, and that makes it good because everybody has different skills and the project also has different needs at different times. We started testing our framework with different communities in September with Aragon, and the idea was to just understand, are the metrics that we're using actually useful for other people? And can you go from the number to action over time? We iterated the framework or we iterated how we're presenting the numbers from a very much academic type of report to something which is more in a slide format and easier digestible. And then finally last year, February, we had the app live. And what happened then very quickly, is that we realized our whole back end wasn't built properly. The numbers that we presented were inaccurate, and we went back to the drawing board. We sustained ourselves using grants. Daniel did a lot of work in that through some lucky encounter in a different community, we got into text as web trees, something that was not planned at all, but that kind of helped us turn the lights on, actually, throughout the whole spring and summer, we are now at a stage where the data is accurate. If a very large community like optimism wants to join our bot, everything crashes again because we haven't optimized for that. So it goes back to the drawing board, seeing how we can also deal with these large clients, instead of just saying we don't want to work with optimism because you're too big and we can't handle that. So that's kind of like a quick rundown about where we are once a couple of slides will show the numbers, maybe in relation to that one thing that happened when we worked, when we started working with togethercool, we wanted to test the usefulness of the dashboard. And to do that, you need real data. Apologies. And we realized that because we had to work with data due to problems in undoubted, not everybody wanted to sorry, I just need to drink something for a SEC. Not everybody in Andao wanted to give let us use their data. So their post. So this created an interesting conversation around open data and closed data and GDPR. And what data can we actually collect or can a community manager use in order to understand the community that they're managing, which is related to the question about who owns the data. So if you're posting something in discord and you know that this is in the andau server, do you own the data or just now, the discord admin own the data, and therefore the discord admin can decide what happens with the data. So while it was kind of a setback for the team because we couldn't test our tool properly, we learned a lot on the privacy side there. Why was I going into that direction?
[ 0:22:39.000 ---> 0:22:40.000 ] Speaker A : I forgot.
[ 0:22:40.000 ---> 0:27:39.000 ] Speaker C : But it's an important fact that kind of shape who together crew is and what we're trying to do. So the tool itself, it is implemented in the Andao server. So everybody who joinsdao you're consenting for us to analyze your data. And currently only the discord admin, which means daniel has access to this data. All the data is well, some data is for example, so some data can be tracked to a specific person. Other data, it's harder to track it to a specific person. And we are GDPR compliant. So we talked with a lawyer to make sure that we're not doing anything shady things that you can see, which is you can divide the metrics into individual metrics and community level metrics. And then again, on the individual side, you can see it kind of as welcoming members. So how do people join the community? How are they acting when they're part of the community? And what are they doing when they're leaving their community? And then acknowledging also that some people leave because, well, Arundao isn't for them. So this engagement doesn't have to be a bad thing. So, for example, for onboarding, we can see things like joining, joining and being active, joining and still being active, instead of joining, making an introduction and then dropping out. And that for community manager then provides information about is there too much friction in the onboarding process or not enough? A lot of people joining and making an introduction were then dropping off directly. So there are different ways you can then use this data and at the end of it, it helps to better segment and understand community members. And then on the other side, so on the kind of the leaving side, we do acknowledge that life happens and not everybody is 24/7 in Discord, communicating with other community members. And it's actually quite normal for people to disengage for one week or two weeks. Just imagine if you are on holiday and you decide to be completely on holiday, so then you would not go on Discord. And in normal dashboards you will be counted as a disengaged member, which means something has to happen. We need to make sure that you come back into the community. But it's actually nothing bad is happening, you are just on holiday, which is perfectly normal and should not make the community manager worried about what is going on in the community. So then the metrics reflect this as our acknowledgment that life happens also outside of discord or outside of the community you are in. And then what else do we have? Well, we have a social network graph because communities are this communities is a web of interaction. If you enter a community and there's no interaction in it, there's directly the assumption that this is a dead place and you will be leaving. So what we're measuring is the space between the people, the relationships, and based on that, we can create these fancy pictures. And for example, this is Ardau, and I'm pretty sure everybody can guess who's this dot in the center there, this purple one funnily. He's kind of imprisoned by four people who are kind of circling around him, but also having interactions with him. And we have a couple of bridges here, the green dot there, and a purple dot here. Interesting about bridges, without talking to them, you don't know if they're a bridge builder, which is something good, or a gatekeeper. And that's kind of the limit of this. Like this picture shows you a lot of data, but if you really want to know, you have to talk with people. So while this looks like, wow, I now know everything, what you're actually just doing is scratching the surface and numbers only give you the basis. And I really think that you need to have the conversation with people in order to really get behind the numbers. Another thing you can see in these network graphs are the people in the periphery, the edges. And then normally, community builders are like also in companies where these type of analyses are used, they're like, oh, no, there's somebody at the edge of the network. I need to do something. I need to get them into the center. They need to be super active. Like, wait, if you're at the edge, it normally means you're active in a lot of other communities. If you're active in other communities, it means you know something I don't know, which is great for me, because then you can give me new ideas. You might come across a tool I didn't know, or you might read something that is relevant for me, but because I'm so deep in Arm Dao, I just didn't hear about it. But because you are at the edge of Arm Dao, you bring in this new expertise or this new knowledge. So again, you need to talk to people to really understand. Is it bad that they are at the edge? I don't know how much time there is. Chris, please interrupt me. I'm more or less at the end.
[ 0:27:39.000 ---> 0:27:40.000 ] Speaker B : One more minute.
[ 0:27:40.000 ---> 0:28:01.000 ] Speaker C : Perfect traction. We're doing well. Got pocket this week and optimism a couple of weeks ago, which helped us to collaborate together with Microflow, who will do a lot of the development for us and that's it open for questions.
[ 0:28:02.000 ---> 0:28:21.000 ] Speaker B : Well, we're going to keep the questions for end. We're going to go straight on to Artem if we can do so. If you can prepare your presentation, we're going to move on to Artem, who's going to present Harmonica, which is probably the latest startup to join Iron Dao. Over to you.
[ 0:28:26.000 ---> 0:28:30.000 ] Speaker D : Hey, guys. Hope you can see my screen.
[ 0:28:35.000 ---> 0:28:36.000 ] Speaker B : Cool.
[ 0:28:37.000 ---> 0:35:44.000 ] Speaker D : So, yes, Harmonica only recently joined Arundao, and to be honest, we started working on it also very recently, which may be like, less than two months ago. So Harmonica is AI powered chatbot for superfast sense making and deliberation. I've been thinking about problems that we solve, and I think the main two problems are equally important and they are more important for different markets. So the first one is more about large organizations who basically are struggling with participation rates. Thoughtful deliberation is hard to scale, people feel voiceless, a lot of available insights are missed. So that's something that happens in large companies like Adidas or maybe even with some kind of democratic processes or political action. And the other problem is that in the communities where people are more engaged by default, actually, collective deliberation is also quite expensive and or slow. So Arundao published a great article about this. If you haven't read it, I wholeheartedly recommend you read it called Decisions in DAOs or something like that. So the problems here are that people avoid conflict and sometimes they don't want to just argue with each other on a forum. They have limited attention span, even if they write something on the forum or in Polis, then you have to spend like weeks to just process all that data. And those platforms like Discourse or Polys are also external to the communication platforms like Discord. So not all members go there. It's hard to make them to go and share their opinions there. So what we're building is basically combining large language model with Conversational UX to get to make decisions of higher quality and faster and hopefully also they would become cheaper. I really like the term collective dialogue system. Basically we use language model as an interface or yeah, Conversational UX to change the way people deliberate and make decisions. And basically we increase human collective intelligence by increasing the bandwidth for that conversation and helping more people to speak up. So it works very simply. You just start the instance on Discord, members join the instance and then start talking to the language model through the bot one on one and the bot can ask them additional questions and those questions can be different for each participant and the questions are informed by what other participants are saying. So that basically people comment or build upon each other's ideas. And finally the bot shares synthesizes all that and shares a summary or proposal or something like a report which shows like clusters of opinions. So I really like this quote continued progress toward the development and adoption of such systems could help revitalize democracies, reimagine corporate governance and transform conflict. I really want to show it to you, but unfortunately you would have to join our test server which you can do by scanning the QR code. Right now I don't think we have time for the demo but if anyone is interested in checking out the product, like today, please follow this link and I will personally facilitate a demo session for you. So I just wanted to add a few more words about the business model. We really want to build this as an open source software. Actually, I want to build this yeah, I don't know if I can call it a public good if we have premium features, but ideally I really want as many communities to use it. And that's why we want to make it free for some organizations like community interest companies or maybe cooperatives universities. But for large corporations like enterprise clients we want to offer pro features which might include a lot of sessions per week or a lot of participants in one session, some kind of really useful prompts that might help them in their particular contexts and API integration with something like Jira. Plus we can sell some services like using harmonica's license like Sublicensing or GPT license or setting up on premise language models if the client is concerned with security. And those features, like maybe something related to security, can be really important for some of our customers. So speaking of our go to market strategy, we decided to focus right now on a very niche market which. Is Venture clubs and angel networks. So if anyone here has any relationship to Venture Clubs or Angel Networks, please reach out to me. I would love to talk to you about this. After that, we want to try to find product market fit with mutual and employee owned businesses, which I think include Dows. And finally, maybe sometimes next year, we can finally try to sell this to large companies like Enterprise and so on. And finally, sometimes in the future, which I really hope we'll be able to do, is we'll try to use it for democratic dialogue or citizen engagement. So this is like very rough, very work in progress, go to market strategy. That's basically it. I hope I haven't used too much time.
[ 0:35:44.000 ---> 0:36:00.000 ] Speaker B : Brilliantly. Thank you, Arthur. That's great. I'm going to move on. If anyone has any questions, please use the chat, because we are running out of time. So I'm going to move quickly on to Stackles if Ector is available. Hi, Hector, the floor is yours.
[ 0:36:36.000 ---> 0:36:39.000 ] Speaker E : Sorry, my screen is closed.
[ 0:37:14.000 ---> 0:37:36.000 ] Speaker B : Can we ask Ramon if he wants to? Sorry. There you go. If we can try and keep it to five to ten, that'd be amazing.
[ 0:37:37.000 ---> 0:37:38.000 ] Speaker C : Yeah.
[ 0:37:38.000 ---> 0:37:39.000 ] Speaker E : Do you see my screen now?
[ 0:37:41.000 ---> 0:37:41.000 ] Speaker B : Yes.
[ 0:37:43.000 ---> 0:37:44.000 ] Speaker C : Okay.
[ 0:37:44.000 ---> 0:42:07.000 ] Speaker E : Yeah, now it works. Sorry about that. Hello, everyone. We are Stackers and we simplify the Web Three coordination experience. All of us are in Web Three space, and I believe Web Three is the future. But let's be honest with each other. What is it like to work in Web Three or contribute to a Web Three project? I am in this space since 2021, and as a contributor myself, I've struggled with confusing UX link letter. I try to bookmark everything, all the important links in separate folders in my browser, but it's not very organized and a good experience for me as a contributor. Trust me, I am trying very hard not to get scammed, because even OGS have fallen into these traps. I do not know what to trust and what not to trust anymore. Onboarding is bad, people cannot navigate, and there's an actual financial risk of losing money through scam links. For example, R Dao may be using Discord, Twitter Telegram, GitHub Notion link to Mint, Tokens and several other tools and links that you can think of. How me as a contributor can know which one is legit and which one is not? Which one can I trust and which not? Is there a reliable single source of truth? It's not just a dow problem or web three problem. Even the Web Two companies do not have a trusted UI for all the tools and links that they use, especially because the existing solutions are not interoperable. They're not designed for open Web Three communities, and they create silos. By silos, what do I mean? Let's take example of Google workspace. If you're using Google Workspace, it will not show you the tools that you use from Microsoft or any other company. We have experienced these pain points and have spoken to community members to some of you to develop a solution which is a trustable UI that allows you to find all the tools and organizations such as Rndao uses at one place. So Stackers is a trusted portal to find all the tools that you need and you can safely click on the links. As a member of R Dao, I can access R Dao space on my Stackers Chrome plugin and see all the relevant links here. And I can trust these links. It is a single source of truth for the R Dao members. I know that if I click on these links, I would not get scammed. We do not have any direct competitors, but a few indirect competitors. But our USP is that we abide by two web three principles principle of decentralization and interoperability, which is at the core of our solution and will always be. We have developed this solution with the feedback from the community and we continue to ask for more feedback to improve it even further. How do we plan to make money? So we do have a basic version which will be free for everyone. As Artem said, we also want this tool to be used by everyone. But we do have a standard version and premium version. And this is us. We have the right skills and knowledge and of course the mentorship, as you see, to deliver a great solution to the community. Thank you so much for joining us in our journey and stay safe.
[ 0:42:07.000 ---> 0:42:19.000 ] Speaker B : Amazing. Thank you, Hector, and great timing as well. Thank you, Ramon. If you're still there and you're able to share your screen, I would love to hear about Meet with Wallet.
[ 0:42:20.000 ---> 0:47:41.000 ] Speaker F : I have good and bad news. The bad news is I didn't have time to prepare something. The good news is that given that we don't have much time, I can just show the product quickly and we are good to go. Let me share my screen. Hopefully it will work as soon as I find between the hundred open windows here. There we go. So what is Mitri wallet? It started as an alternative to Calendly but tailored to Web Three. And we want to evolve this to an alternative to like a Web Three calendar and a way to actually help people organize themselves when they are in groups. Nowadays is a product more tailored to one on one meetings. So just like calendar, you create a calendar you share, people can schedule meetings with you. The main difference is that first, it relies on Web Three technology so people can schedule using their create accounts and schedule meetings just using their regular wallets. And second, all information is private. Everything about the meeting aside from public things like the time that you are meeting, so we can block your calendar. Everything else is fully private and encrypted on the client side. So only people participating the meeting can actually decrypt that information and know what it is about. We also support things like Token Gating for scheduling the meetings. We want to enable people to request crypto payments for the meeting to be scheduled and things like that. But this is all still a little bit 101. Let's say now we want to evolve how to make cross not even big, but teams coordination a little bit easier. In order to do that, we are researching and trying out a few hypotheses. One of them will be a Discord bot that allows you within your discord server just to tag some people. And for those who have an account we will search for the best time for people to meet and schedule the meeting for them. Then we can evolve for things kind of similar to Letters Meet, although their approach is not wonderful because you always need to check your ten different calendars, find the times that you want to tag as open times and things like that. And we can do all of this automatically first because we also allow integration with as many calendars as you have. And this is your private information, right? When you share your Meet With Wallet calendar, all your empty available slots will be there for people to see, but they have no idea that you have other ten calendars behind that or your email or anything else that you don't want to share because web three people love anonymity as well. This is the high level of things that Meet With Wallet is capable and what we are aiming for. And now I'm going to give like a super quick rundown of the product. So you can just go to Meetwithwallet XYZ. You have this beautiful landing page, you will connect your wallet, you will go to your meeting dashboard. Let's say you have your account details, where's the display name like the description for your calendar, you can add optionally Twitter, Discord and Telegram. You have subscriptions you can use for free of course. And if you want the Pro subscription where you can customize your link, sync multiple calendars like have different types of notifications, not a single one, do the Token Gating, et cetera, et cetera, you can go for a Pro subscription which costs $30 a year. This is showing one just because we are on the staging version. Then you set up your availabilities per day, as many as you want. You can break like every time during lunchtime, I'm not available. And of course based on your time zone, otherwise this wouldn't work. You can set different meeting types. So I want a meeting like half hour, a meeting of 1 hour. And for each of these types you can set a different description, a different link, the minimum notice time for someone to schedule the meeting, add or not a gate, as I was mentioning, token gate for this type of meeting and many more things to come notification settings. For now, we have email discord or push notifications with can or better. Now it's called push protocol and we can think on many other types of notification. The token gates, and lastly the connected calendars. We support Google, Office, Icloud and WebDAV, which is an interface that most of the calendar like companies and protocols use. Then taking a look at the scheduling page, pretty similar to Calendly. As I was mentioning, you have some basic information about this person's calendar. Here you can see the types of meetings that can be scheduled, information about this type of meeting, this one in particular is blocked, is gated by people having ant the Argon network token and as simple as come here, I say I want to meet you at 1030. You can schedule with your wallet, you add a name that you want. What is this meeting about? We use huddle zero one.
[ 0:47:41.000 ---> 0:47:41.000 ] Speaker C : Thanks.
[ 0:47:41.000 ---> 0:48:29.000 ] Speaker F : Many of you know them, an alternative to zoom, but Web Three tailor as well. But if you don't want you just untoggle put any custom meeting URL here. And for your boomer friends that are not part of Web Three, they can simply come and schedule as a guest by simply inserting their email and meeting will still work the same way. This is it as a super fast showcase of the product as I mentioned. Now we are working a little bit on this discord bot as a POC and figure out how is this going to work if this is really available. For sure, Iron Dao will be the first server for us to try this out and many other interesting ideas to come along the way. If anyone has any questions.
[ 0:48:30.000 ---> 0:49:32.000 ] Speaker B : That was incredible and great timing. Thank you so much. And that brings us three minutes before the top of the hour. Does anybody have any burning questions that they haven't shared in the chat and they'd like to draw attention to? I think a lot of people have been answering directly there. I guess the tradition says hands up, we can always steal the mic. Okay, well, I guess we must have done an amazingly effective job of answering everything as we were too long. I guess it remains for me to say thank you all for turning up. I really enjoyed that. That was great to hear everybody's present presentation. Sorry it was so short, but it was great to hear that rapid fire and we'll look forward to organizing again and seeing you all again. Hopefully, who knows in a month's time. Have a great weekend everybody.
