[ 0:00:12.000 ---> 0:02:10.000 ] Speaker A : Well, amazing to see everybody here. Thank you very much for joining. Welcome to Rndao's q 423 Demo Day. We're very proud to be able to show you today the fruits of three months of labor by the teams at Ventures supported by R Dao. I know there's loads of people joining. We're going to have a little bit of a preamble before they get going, but try to find a seat and we'll get going. So, like all activities at R Dao, the ventures that we're going to feature today are all aimed at improving human collaboration in a variety of interesting ways. So Demo Day is the opportunity to check in once a quarter on the cohort adventures at R Dao and see their progress. We have a packed agenda today. We are going to take you through a quick presentation from Daniel Espina, who's the instigator of R and Dao. We're going to take you through presentations from each of our ventures. And then as a special bonus, given that there was so much demand this time around 160 OD and still counting registered enters entries, we thought a round of speed networking might be interesting. Who are all the people who are interested in collaboration technology? Do you want to meet who they are? Do you want to know who they are? Well, we've got a half an hour where you can stay on after the hours presentations, where you can meet them one on one sessions, very quick, rapid, five minutes. Hopefully you'll meet people you know, maybe you'll meet some people you like, maybe you'll meet both. Anyway, we want to move ahead and I'm going to click through a short presentation from Daniel and hopefully we can move ahead with that. Daniel, when you're ready.
[ 0:02:10.000 ---> 0:07:56.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you. Thank you very much. So really excited to have you here. It's been long in the making to come to this point and really appreciate that you're all coming together as we help to catalyze the collaboration tech ecosystem. This is really important for us because personally and also as a group, what's brought us together is this realization that we have a gigantic problem with human collaboration. Next slide, please. The issue here is that we are talking about $8 trillion lost a year because people are miserable at work, because we don't care about the jobs that we're doing, because we prefer to look for the window. We're looking for the weekend to go and get drunk and numb ourselves through another week of drudgery. I don't know if you've seen recently the video of the TikTok Girl that was going viral in, well, TikTok, Twitter, et cetera, where the opinions were quite mixed of like, oh yeah, snowflake, you're just discovering work. But for many of us is the sad reality that she's just realized how miserable the lives of the majority of workers worldwide are. And at the same time, we have these gigantic, like, global, wicked complex challenges that really require us to mobilize and address them and we're wasting our lives with menial pointless jobs. This is a coordination disaster. And naturally, the impact is also on our mental health. The good news is that a lot of the fundamentals are now changing. The very fabric, the very trends that allowed us to organize in an industrial society next slide, please. Are now being transformed. We have remote and hybrid work, the long tail of contribution with freelancing gig economies. All of these, of course, all the web free trends around autonomous teams, decentralized organizations that are also being reflected in web two and across other sectors, AI that comes to the picture to have tremendous impact and all the new possibilities thanks to tokenized ownership and incentivization that we have here. This leads us to a radical change in the way we're organizing. Next one, please. And so, as we've been looking at all the emergent change that's happening, the way we're bringing that together chris, we're losing the slides. Chris? Yeah. The previous one, please. The way this is coming together is that we believe that the future is not just going alone because collaboration is painful and going the solopreneur route because that doesn't solve the mental health issues and it's definitely not the way we have organized in the past in rigid corporations, top down hierarchies and so on. But it's swarms. And it's our ability to catalyze swarms and to find these way for networks of autonomous teams that are intrinsically motivated, that are capable of really coming together quickly to achieve things that alone they could not do. And that way have both economies of scope and scale, but as well the personalization and the autonomy, the fast response, fast innovation that allow teams allow, and is in this coming that then we see a new form of organization that can take over and radically transform the way our economy and our society works. Next one, please. Is that we start to see an unbundling of the traditional organization where we had, as I was saying, this kind of hierarchy, everything nested within. And now we start to have way more network like forms of contracting. And this changes the relationships that we have. And the more relationships we have, the more complexity. But thanks to technology, thanks to the new capabilities that are coming, AI obviously plays a major role here, smart contracts as well. We can then manage the complexity of these relationships, which allows us to have more internal complexity without being burdened down by it. But instead of that, using it as an enabler that allows us to respond to the gigantic complexity of the outside world, to these complex, wicked challenges of global coordination, climate change, et cetera, et cetera, that we're talking about. Next one, please. So our mission here, what we're trying to do, is to unlock the human potential by empowering these digital swarms. And Arendao facilitates these through a modular product ecosystem of swarm tech so we're trying to bring together autonomous teams, different ventures that are tackling this problem, facilitate collaboration together and Facilitators coming together as an ecosystem. Next please. So we have a series of pillars you'll see around decentralized governance, legal and ownership. We actually just got grant by SingularityNET to start tackling the legal and ownership problem. So we're super excited about that and looking to develop other partnerships and collaborate with other communities in this area as well. In community and culture. We'll be presenting about Together Crew. Financial management is an area we don't have anything yet. Very excited to look for interesting ventures and possibilities. We potentially have some presentations by Pattern that might touch upon this more to be announced very soon and Operations and Talent as well. We start to have with Midweek Wallet and some of the other tools as well. So without further ado, I'll pass it on to our different teams that will be showing their work. And thank you all for being here.
[ 0:07:58.000 ---> 0:08:07.000 ] Speaker A : We're going to move swiftly on straight to our first venture which is Together Crew and Katerina, would you like to share your screen and I'll stop the share?
[ 0:08:10.000 ---> 0:08:24.000 ] Speaker C : Yeah, thanks. Welcome everybody. I was looking at the participants and it's great to see some people known faces host has disabled participant screen sharing. Can you please give me the right again to do this?
[ 0:08:28.000 ---> 0:08:28.000 ] Speaker D : Done.
[ 0:08:30.000 ---> 0:19:38.000 ] Speaker C : Thank you. So let me go on full screen and while I do that, as Daniel mentioned, we are working in the area of community and culture after having experienced the problems in that area. So you should be able to see my screen perfectly right now. So we are together cool. And we unlock community powered business growth. Sorry, that was too fast. Over the years, the way companies have reached out to their users has changed and we are now in an area of community powered growth. And while the word community has been shown around a lot, especially in Web three, the businesses who have real communities see a real impact on them and this happens through different ways. For example, faster sales cycle, increased qualified leads and increased retention rate. So investing in your community has a positive impact on your business. However, the problem is that building a community and everybody who is in his audience and is doing this can confirm building a community is a lot of manual work. You have all these community members who have all these different questions, who don't read Notion or can't find their link or posting documents without checking for the sharing settings and the community manager needs to keep on top of that. And then somebody's hosting an event about your Dow but is using the governance documents from the last season and you have to correct for everything to make this worse. Every platform has their own data, but it's not sharing it with other data, with other platforms. So it's impossible for you as a community manager to get an idea of what is happening in your community because everything is siloed across different platforms. And we realized this. And then we went to other web three communities and we said, hey, we saw communities isn't community is important and we're going to look into this. And everybody was like, yeah, for sure. We need to find ways to measure what is a healthy community and we need to have strategies to maintain our communities healthy. So thanks to the grants that we got, we saw that this problem of knowing what is a healthy community is a problem that is widespread in web trip. Our solution to this problem is threefold. First, we're going to address the problem of data being siloed through cross platform data analysis. So you're not just seeing insights about your community on Telegram and then on Discord, and then in some way have to kind of piece it all together. You get one dashboard where you see everything. Secondly, we're moving away from vanity metrics. So we're not measuring how noisy your community is, but we're measuring the number of conversations that are happening and for this, being able to predict how sticky your community is. And this leads you to better insight about the long term viability of your community. And then finally we realized that metrics are just the beginning. What is really important for community builders who are spending all this manual labor is to automate workflows. And not just every workflow, but the workflow where human touch isn't so important. So behind the scenes, this is all happening thanks to our teams of data nerds. So we have PhDs in our teams and data engineers who just love to get a whole lot of unstructured data and put it in the right format. We're combining insights from different scientific disciplines to make sense of it. So we're not just measuring whatever we want to measure, we look at the science and measure what should be measured on our dashboard. In our app, we have several features right now. At the beginning you see an analytics dashboard. And as mentioned before, it doesn't just measure noise, it measures conversation. So how many people are really interacting and adding value to all our team members? Then we're having a way for you to diagnose your community in a more data driven way. So helping community managers to move away from anecdotes and using kind of real data to make decisions. And then finally, what we implemented this week is a customer support bot. So a LNM bot that you can ask questions. And in this way it helps with the onboarding of team members. It's a way of automatically updating all the documents that exist about your community. And once this is fully done, I don't have to go to Notion anymore and I can just ask hive mind what is happening? And I'm going to go a bit deeper into the hive mind bot. So normally when you think about all these different chat bots that exist. You ask a prompt, and then you get an answer. And then you're like, okay, that's not really what I want. Then you ask another one, and then you get a different answer, and you're like, okay, this is getting there. And then you ask another question. And so ten minutes have spent before you even got to the answer that you actually really needed. And that's because of the way people are taught to ask questions. It takes time to figure out the questions that you really want to ask. So what we have done is that we have realized this and we have simplified the process. You ask our hive mind bot a question, it takes the question, generates sub questions, and then answers every subquestions, and then comes back to you with a response. Currently, our hive mind bot is at an intern level. So if you ask it too complex questions, it will not be able to do this, but you can ask it simpler questions. So we wanted to do a live demo, but the team has run into API limits with OpenAI. So just going to give it a try, but I don't know if it will work. What I'm going to show you instead are the queries we were doing before, for example, a question that our Togetherco team is currently, well, not struggling. We're dealing with this, and we are onboarding a new designer. So then a question like this will be something that helps the new person to join. So what is the design team working on? And instead of having to have conversations with five different peoples to figure this out, the new person can ask HiveMind and gets an answer. If we have somebody joining our dev team, we're using Neo Four J, which is a specific type of database. It's not the most widespread one, but it's the best for our use case. So again, you can just ask hive mind for the answer. Another example I'm going to be showing you right now, and this one took a bit longer to answer. So you see, interns aren't the best or aren't the quickest worker, but over time, our Hive mind will reach expert level. So a question you could ask is, why does the team want to use the postgres database? So again, this is a database. It's a different you have to weigh different factors about what database you want to use. And then a new person who joins the dev team can use hive mind to figure out what was the decision making team, what was the decision making process in the team. So this is about HiveMind. It is currently installed in the Dao server. It only has access to conversation that happened in the Togetherq channels. So everybody in this team who's part of Ardau, if you ask it questions that is not related to get a crew, it will not be able to give you an answer. Where are we right now with the general dashboard? So we have ten K as annual recurrent revenue, and we have 43 early adopters since I made these slides last week. Most importantly, the feedback that we're getting from those community managers is that we're really saving time for them. It's not just a fancy tool, it's something that makes their job easier. Our solution is part of the 4.9 billion marketing tech market, and we were thinking about a traditional revenue model to capture this market. So webtree companies and Dows will be able to pay for the integrations that they need, and we will be growing with them in the community tooling landscape. You can see here, it is pretty crowded, but what most people are doing is that they help you create a community through art. The problem with arts is that you need to keep on feeding them. So it's kind of like a fire that you have to that will get out if you stop putting wood in it. Another thing that is very common is just showing you a dashboard and you get fancy numbers, but you still need to make sense of it and you still need to take action on it. We are different in that we are enabling communities to grow through organic growth, which is more sustainable, and we have automated workflows that are triggered by our metrics. And we are able to do this because we are a team of data nerds. We have PhDs in it, we have people who are very familiar with sensitive data, and we also have marketing and governance experts. And with this combination, we know the data side, but we also know that numbers are only meaningful if they are relevant for the context. And we have members in the team that serve both areas in the long term. Where we're heading for is a data marketplace where we provide the infrastructure of integrating and structuring data and offering other teams the opportunities to build on that data. So we are doing the heavy lifting of cleaning data and providing it in such a format so that other companies can just, let's say, build a reputation metric on it or an onchain identity based on the activity that you're doing, or talent matching. So that's the vision we are working towards. And yeah, thanks for paying attention and it's time for questions.
[ 0:19:40.000 ---> 0:20:04.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, thank you very much, Katerina. I'm not seeing any questions in the chat, and as we're running a little bit later than we thought, I'm inclined to move ahead and ask dad if he would mind preparing to present us with Patton. Thank you very much, Mehdad.
[ 0:20:04.000 ---> 0:20:10.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you very much, Chris. I just heard my screen. Please let me know if you have mine.
[ 0:20:16.000 ---> 0:20:17.000 ] Speaker A : There we go. Perfect.
[ 0:20:17.000 ---> 0:21:22.000 ] Speaker E : Okay, great. Thank you. So my name is Merdad. I'm the co founder and tech lead of Pattern, or previously known as Microfilope. We're going to get into it. Why we call it Pattern later but let's move ahead. This is our context for this session. We're going to go through the challenges those face macroflow version one and what we learned from it. Introducing pattern to you, the solution we have future and a teeny tiny demo. So beginning with the problems currently in the Dow sphere and decentralized autonomous organization ecosystem, we have a lot of issues. The first one is that this industry isn't big enough that they have a specialized tool for them and the Dows have tried to integrate web Two and Web Three solutions together in order to design their own suitable tool. And throughout that there has been some issues, for example the data flow and.
[ 0:21:37.000 ---> 0:21:50.000 ] Speaker A : Madav, have we lost your audio? I think we lost you for about 10 seconds. Perhaps you could just go back to beginning of this slide.
[ 0:21:51.000 ---> 0:21:55.000 ] Speaker E : Okay, from the beginning of this slide if I want to start again.
[ 0:21:58.000 ---> 0:21:58.000 ] Speaker D : Sorry.
[ 0:21:59.000 ---> 0:23:38.000 ] Speaker E : We have different problems in the Dow communities and in the web Three industry because there isn't a specialized tool for Dows because the community of Dows isn't big enough that they have special tools for themselves. And this has brought a lot of issues. For example, data connectivity has been an issue and Dows has constantly issued with on chain and off chain integration. They couldn't onboard their users, they had issues with setting up meetings. Also they had an issue with rewarding them contributors because they cannot view their activities properly. It's like you have a burger but is handed to you separately. You have the bread, the patty, the meat and the onion and everything and you are consuming it separately. So we came up with the idea of markerflow the version one and basically we put everything together. We implemented a way that you can integrate different tools by dragging and dropping them and connecting them together easily, creating workflows for yourself that will work for you and you don't need to maintain them, you implement them once and leave them. They can trigger on and off chain actions for you and they are going to create several rewarding mechanisms for you. But after we launched this product, we encountered another issue. Throughout the numerous discussions we had with different Dows we figured out that there are a lot of issues that Dows don't even know how to solve or they don't.
[ 0:23:47.000 ---> 0:23:49.000 ] Speaker A : Lost you again there medad.
[ 0:23:53.000 ---> 0:24:00.000 ] Speaker E : Even know what type of workflows they want to create to create a burger. But still we don't have a menu now that's better.
[ 0:24:00.000 ---> 0:24:10.000 ] Speaker A : But also your screen is only showing a quarter of the presentation at the moment. So you might want to just review that if you can.
[ 0:24:13.000 ---> 0:24:15.000 ] Speaker E : Let me share again.
[ 0:24:17.000 ---> 0:24:25.000 ] Speaker A : That'S still just a quarter. Just the top left hand, left hand side might be the size of the screen.
[ 0:24:26.000 ---> 0:24:28.000 ] Speaker D : I think I see the whole screen here though.
[ 0:24:28.000 ---> 0:24:30.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, it's looking fine to me as well.
[ 0:24:30.000 ---> 0:24:31.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, fair enough.
[ 0:24:31.000 ---> 0:24:32.000 ] Speaker D : Great.
[ 0:24:32.000 ---> 0:24:33.000 ] Speaker F : Sorry.
[ 0:24:33.000 ---> 0:24:34.000 ] Speaker A : Carry on please.
[ 0:24:38.000 ---> 0:26:00.000 ] Speaker E : Mark. Yeah, we provided them with workflows, but still there was the issue that people didn't know how to bring order to their organization. What we came up with next was Pattern, and that was our rebrand from microflows Patterns, where in our ecosystem you can discover the pattern of your organization. What does pattern bring you? Is the Pattern will enable those to install or build a structure for themselves or as we call it, a Pattern. It allows you to create subdos or sub guilds where you can fully connect them to different tools and create roles that you can revoke or grant automatically using microfilad. And we support for different patterns such as charity, investment, development, or any other type of Dow that you might be or you might want to create. We strongly believe that Patterns will be we strongly believe that Pattern will be the last piece of infrastructure needed organization impaired on daily basis. We put them together for.
[ 0:26:12.000 ---> 0:26:12.000 ] Speaker D : Each four.
[ 0:26:12.000 ---> 0:27:15.000 ] Speaker E : So you don't need to worry about how to maintain VR leverage structure which allow those to build subdos. Subdos be managed by different roles. You can create missions and enable without passing proposal every time for a recurrent payment. This enables you to bring agility to your team and not to have to create a proposal for each of your activities. That was it. Thank you everyone for your attention. If you want to reach out to us, use our Twitter. It's microfiluous still and if you needed more information, this is my discord handle. We can adjourn to questions if there are any.
[ 0:27:18.000 ---> 0:27:57.000 ] Speaker A : Thanks Merdad. I think we had a little bit of difficulty with some of the audio there, but we managed to move on. Does anybody have any questions? Let's see, in the chat about the way that Patton is connecting up different Dow stack tools and to write some permissions of people given in a given dao while we're just getting sorry, can you repeat the I'm just asking if there are any questions about Pattern. Meanwhile, Mayor dad, maybe you can tell us about some of the roadmap that you have coming up. What are the new features that you're looking to implement?
[ 0:27:59.000 ---> 0:28:14.000 ] Speaker E : Okay, the new features that we are looking to implement is creating subdos that you can come into our ecosystem and create your own Dow, your own subdao and create roles for people that you can assign to them.
[ 0:28:30.000 ---> 0:28:37.000 ] Speaker A : Sorry, your audio seems to be giving out. I think we need would you like.
[ 0:28:37.000 ---> 0:28:40.000 ] Speaker G : Me to jump in? Grace?
[ 0:28:40.000 ---> 0:28:42.000 ] Speaker A : Jeffrey? That'd be great. Thank you, ma'am.
[ 0:28:42.000 ---> 0:29:52.000 ] Speaker G : Okay, so regarding the upcoming features for MVP, we kept it simple. So by the MVP of Pattern, you can create different subdos thanks to the Argon infrastructure. And these subdos can actually be managed by some roles which we are going to use. Hats in this regard for the MVP, we will only manage one permission at this moment and we will add more permission, which is as a guild leader, which is the top hat of subdo, you would be able to spend some amount of money without needing to spend. Proposal why we pick this scenario. So we identified that many Dows struggle with the payments and the agility they want to have for their, I would say, routine and day to day task. And in this way, we are somehow reducing the Dow bureaucracy and bring more agility. Essentially, that's the first feature we are working on. Hopefully by the upcoming weeks or worst case scenario, the DevConnect, we would be ready to launch the product.
[ 0:29:55.000 ---> 0:30:03.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, there is a question in the chat regarding Hats. I think Daniel has managed to answer that, but do you want to speak to that sepa?
[ 0:30:04.000 ---> 0:30:26.000 ] Speaker G : How is the management of the flows assigned? Can I hat it or something to my members? Exactly. So as a role management system, we are going to use our, I would say favorite. This is my favorite protocol, Hats. So if you already created your Hats tree in the Hats UI, you can.
[ 0:30:26.000 ---> 0:30:26.000 ] Speaker C : Easily.
[ 0:30:29.000 ---> 0:30:40.000 ] Speaker G : Subdos and other entities. So it would be really easy for you to integrate the hats you currently have with our infrastructure.
[ 0:30:41.000 ---> 0:31:08.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, brilliant. All right, I think we're going to move on to our next presentation. Thank you very much, Mayor dad. And also zephyr for stepping in. That was Patton. So we're going to move on to meet with Wallet. Meet With Wallet has been a venture that we've been working and to support at R Dao almost since the beginning.
[ 0:31:08.000 ---> 0:31:08.000 ] Speaker F : Really?
[ 0:31:08.000 ---> 0:31:18.000 ] Speaker A : So it's been a long time. Parsa, if you're there, please do grab your screen, make sure that you're on a slideshow and looking forward to it.
[ 0:31:21.000 ---> 0:31:22.000 ] Speaker D : Yes, sure.
[ 0:31:22.000 ---> 0:32:06.000 ] Speaker F : Let me just one sorry. Oh, hi, everyone. My name is Parsa. I'm the project manager on MeToo Wallet, and I have the honor to introduce you to a new age of team coordination.
[ 0:32:07.000 ---> 0:32:21.000 ] Speaker A : Sorry, Parsa. Sorry to interrupt. Can you just push the slideshow button or we're just seeing your actual slides without the slideshow at the moment. Hit the slideshow button.
[ 0:32:24.000 ---> 0:32:29.000 ] Speaker F : Let me just do it again. Are we on the slideshow now?
[ 0:32:30.000 ---> 0:32:32.000 ] Speaker A : No. Maybe you have two screens.
[ 0:32:35.000 ---> 0:32:53.000 ] Speaker F : Top right button, slideshow. Is it sharing now?
[ 0:32:54.000 ---> 0:33:07.000 ] Speaker A : No, we can see the original slide deck, so we're not going to play the video. So if you have two screens, maybe just make sure that we're seeing the one where you're sharing the one with the slideshow.
[ 0:33:07.000 ---> 0:33:14.000 ] Speaker F : Yeah, I am just sharing the one with the slideshow. Let me just change into chrome.
[ 0:33:26.000 ---> 0:33:27.000 ] Speaker A : There we go.
[ 0:33:27.000 ---> 0:33:27.000 ] Speaker D : Perfect.
[ 0:33:27.000 ---> 0:33:28.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you.
[ 0:33:28.000 ---> 0:33:29.000 ] Speaker F : Okay.
[ 0:33:29.000 ---> 0:33:29.000 ] Speaker D : Sorry.
[ 0:33:29.000 ---> 0:35:54.000 ] Speaker F : Sorry for that. So from the beginning, my name is Parsa. I'm the project manager on Mitted Wallet, and I have the honor to introduce you to a new age of team coordination. I've been working with Mitted Wallet for almost four months now alongside a team of around ten people who have been building this product for almost a year now. As a team working remotely, we are very familiar with the pain of setting up meetings, but this is particularly difficult with today's rapidly evolving work culture. The future of work is global. Teams will be comprised of contributors from different time zones. It'll be fluid. Teams will be created to solve a challenge and then disband it quickly. Individuals within them need to be able to move freely from one group to another. It will be flexible. Individuals may have different roles in each work group and it will be decentralized. Workers will want to keep their own personal data and may want greater control over their data privacy. So you can see how tools that are currently used does not appeal to the natives of Stormworking Error. Meet with Wallet is a decentralized meeting scheduling solution tailored to the needs of today's worker and their teams and communities. Although setting up a meeting suited to everyone's time is a recurring challenge, meetwith Wallet lets you easily share your calendar with the press of a button. It allows users to connect calendars from multiple providers so you aren't stuck using a tool you don't want to. You can use an anonymous Wallet address so you don't have to disclose any email Identifier or any other kind of Identifier. If you don't want to. Your calendar link is yours. You can use it for any team, even when you change projects or jobs. And it has smart bookings built into make group collaborations much more easier. In short, Meetsuit Wallet takes the pain out of meetings. It lets you choose the time that works best for all participants and it ends the annoying back and forth emails or discord messaging just to schedule a meeting.
[ 0:35:56.000 ---> 0:35:57.000 ] Speaker E : So.
[ 0:35:58.000 ---> 0:38:46.000 ] Speaker F : Let'S have a quick demonstration of how it works. Let's say you want a one on one meeting with someone from your team. All you have to do is put in their link, choose the date, choose the time and boom, your meeting is scheduled. But it gets even. Sorry. But it gets even easier. You don't even have to leave Discord to set up your meeting. You can use the command for the Meet with Wallet discord Bot. Ask who you want to be in the meeting and set the duration of the meeting. And within less than 30 seconds the bot will automatically choose the nearest time that everyone is available and set the meeting for you. There goes metif. Wallet is free for everyone. Sorry. Right now we are working on customizing Meteorite Wallet even more for swarm workers. We have just completed lightning scheduling for creating meetings instantly with Discord bot. Next, we're working on creating group calendars, which includes creating a bespoked group of individuals which can be booked as a team or as an individual. So the book all feature might be used when your team needs to pitch to a potential investor or a user. You're going to need. Your team leads project managers, sales teams and developers in the meeting. This feature will find the time best suitable for all the parties that's going to be in the meeting. The book any feature might be used as an It support group, each of whom can provide a similar support on a given product. Mintis Wallet is free for everyone to try as a fully functional product, you can add your calendar, book one on one meetings and share your calendar just by sharing your Wallet address. However, to get the full benefits of decentralized working, you have to offer a pro subscription. I hope you enjoyed a glimpse of what's possible with Metwith Wallet and if you're ready to level up your scheduling game, hit us up on Discord or Twitter. Thank you.
[ 0:38:48.000 ---> 0:39:16.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much. Parsa waiting for a question in the chat. I'm keen to understand from I know that you've deployed with many Dows, but the one I'm most familiar with is the way that you've used it in Rndao. Can you talk to me a bit, a little bit about how you've used or what difference it's made when you've been working with a team based in Discord through Rndao, when you've used Meet with Wallet.
[ 0:39:18.000 ---> 0:39:49.000 ] Speaker F : So basically when we wanted to create weekly meetings for our own team, we had a lot of hassle going back and forth, fixing everyone's time on different calendars and it took forever to get it rolling. But when we had the bot rolling out, it was as simple as doing it in 5 seconds, which took us almost two weeks to do.
[ 0:39:50.000 ---> 0:40:23.000 ] Speaker A : You have to make sure that everybody has their diary up to date though, right? That's the one thing, yeah. Okay. All right, so maybe we can move on ahead and we'll move ahead with our last venture for today, which is going to be harmonica. So thank you very much. Parsa and meet with wallet and Artem. If you're ready, do you want to share your screen and we'll listen to where you're at.
[ 0:40:35.000 ---> 0:41:02.000 ] Speaker D : Hello, everyone. Thank you, Chris. Excited to be here. It's a great honor for me and I'm a bit nervous because I see a lot of people who I know and some people who have influenced me in the participants list. So, yes, I'm going to share my screen now. Share.
[ 0:41:05.000 ---> 0:41:06.000 ] Speaker F : Here it is.
[ 0:41:10.000 ---> 0:41:17.000 ] Speaker D : Um, hopefully oops, no, it's not full screen, is it?
[ 0:41:17.000 ---> 0:41:19.000 ] Speaker F : Yeah, that looks good.
[ 0:41:19.000 ---> 0:41:20.000 ] Speaker A : It's not full screen then. That.
[ 0:41:25.000 ---> 0:47:20.000 ] Speaker D : Hide loading controls. Full screen should be better now. Right, so I'm presenting harmonica, which is the venture that we have been working on over the last few months. When I say we, I mean a small team but very talented. I'm not talking about myself, I'm talking about Harry, who is my co founder and who was my colleague in the protein community. We both were in the core team of Protent community until this year. Also, we have a few very well experienced people as advisors, including Drea. Daniel and Chris from I'm very, very grateful for their help. So while working in the protein community, both me and Harry experienced the problem that I think a lot of us here has experienced a lot in the last few years, especially in Web Three. But I think it's not only about Web Three really, it's about our civilization in general. I don't want to talk too much about metacrisis, but yeah, I think decision making can be much better than it is now. And when I talk about decision making, actually I think about more specific, well, stages of that process, which is sense making and deliberation. So organizations don't do that as much as we wish they did because on the one hand, it's not easy to engage people, especially when they work remotely. And according to some research, 60% of employees these days report a decrease in engagement. And it's hard to scale thoughtful deliberation this way. A lot of insights are missed. Many people avoid conflict, don't want to argue, so they'd prefer not to write comments on the forum or something like that. And on the other hand, discussing things takes a lot of time. Even if you manage to engage people well, actually it turns out that they create a lot of noise and someone has to process all that. And it can happen asynchronously usually with text, it causes delays, especially if you're using different communication platforms. It can get really messy and it's difficult to follow what I call decision making protocols, which can be really useful. So another thing that I want to say is I think a lot of people here agree with me that artificial intelligence has a pivotal role to play in the future of both work and governance. So without further ado, I want to tell you a little bit about what we're building, which is language model powered chatbot that helps groups of people come to alignment really fast. So it's important that it's powered with large language model like GPT because it enables fast and scalable facilitation. And it's also important that it's a chatbot because using a chatbot enables us to meet people and communities where they are like discord and it's really easy to use and it ensures high engagement. Not only that, but we're also building a template of libraries based on popular frameworks like Retrospectives or Sociocracy. It can be anything, but basically it enables us to expand our use case horizons with things like sense making, collaboration, strategy investments and so on. We're also building a web dashboard which will turn simple conversations into action items and basically build a collective intelligence OS for your organization. So on the one hand, we not only synthesize what people think or propose in the chat bot, but we also turn those ideas or maybe tensions into actionable items with certain metadata that you can actually do something with like update your constitution or share announcement on discord or something like that. And on the other hand, we kind of build something like collective intelligence analytics for your organization based on the history of Deliberations or sense making sessions. So at this point I wanted to show you how it works. Hopefully we have a few minutes for that. And to do that, I'm going to share another window. I'm sorry, I didn't record a Loom video which I should have done. So the problem is that I've hidden zoom controls. I can't switch the window anymore. Oh my God, I don't know what to do to be honest. How can I share another window now.
[ 0:47:24.000 ---> 0:47:26.000 ] Speaker A : If you unshare this one and then.
[ 0:47:26.000 ---> 0:51:31.000 ] Speaker D : Just share again from another those controls listen guys, I have very limited time and I'm that I have to skip this. I'm sorry about this. I wanted to show you how the chat bot works in Discord, it really does, but I think I don't have time for this. Very embarrassing. Anyway, so the business model for this currently this is quite simple, maybe it will change after we start the actual sales. But basically we want to offer free features to everyone so that anyone could use it and also the code will be shared on GitHub. So if you want to host it yourself, you can do it. And also we can offer professional features for $100 a month or maybe 1000 per year, which would make it unlimited sessions per week, unlimited participants in one session like premium templates and integrations. And on top of that, we also want to build enterprise tier for larger organizations which could include asynchronous sense making something that we call Harmonica Pulse. Daniel, I can see your messages and maybe we can try to do the demo after I finish with my slides. Thank you. So this is the roadmap. I don't want to spend too much time on this but basically we are building a full stack elective intelligence infrastructure and there is four important parts of this. Primarily what we're doing with language models, what we're doing with UX and how we facilitate sessions and also DevOps for this. And one idea that I want to try to convey is that harmonica is both multiplayer and a protocol. And when I say that harmonica is a protocol, well actually I mean that harmonica enables to deploy different protocols or collective intelligence protocols in your organization so that you don't just generate text or mirror board with your team because basically with that content you still have to process it to turn it into actionable items. With harmonica you don't need to process anything, you just generate actionable items with your team in real time. And I think that's what really makes different from both forums and Miro and even tools like Polis or Remash which you might have used. So one more thing, I have applied for my first Gitcoin grant today, it's still in review. I've applied to the new round by opencifix and yeah, if you can support us on Gitcoin, I would really appreciate that. Also, we are looking for the precede round and I would be happy to discuss it with you later on. Thank you sir, very much. If I have some time left, I will be happy to try to switch to the discord window and run the demo for you.
[ 0:51:33.000 ---> 0:51:42.000 ] Speaker A : Let's try it out. We've got two minutes left of this and we've got a little bit of time left for an outro, but we can just squeeze the outro. So I'd love to see this working.
[ 0:51:42.000 ---> 0:51:56.000 ] Speaker D : Live shortcut for Zoom to unhide the control. Zoom calls.
[ 0:52:02.000 ---> 0:52:05.000 ] Speaker A : The options at the top might have exit full screen mode.
[ 0:52:10.000 ---> 0:52:18.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I'm getting a recommendation of Triscape or why don't you access discord via the web app? Like via your browser?
[ 0:52:23.000 ---> 0:52:45.000 ] Speaker D : Zoom. Zoom control shortcut. Okay, so alt. Oh my God. Don't worry. Why is it so hidden?
[ 0:52:48.000 ---> 0:52:53.000 ] Speaker A : Don't worry, Arthur. I think we'll come back. We'll come back and do that at a different time.
[ 0:52:56.000 ---> 0:53:14.000 ] Speaker D : Yes, I think so because I don't know if I can do this. Any questions, guys? Yeah, try something happened and now I can share my window with you.
[ 0:53:14.000 ---> 0:53:21.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I follow Hendrix suggestion. Thank you very much. Sorry, Spencer's. Suggestion. Thank you very much for the save there.
[ 0:53:23.000 ---> 0:53:37.000 ] Speaker D : Yes. Thank you, Spencer. OK, cool. So you can see my discord window, right? Yes, please, I can't hear you.
[ 0:53:38.000 ---> 0:53:39.000 ] Speaker A : Yes we can.
[ 0:53:40.000 ---> 0:56:49.000 ] Speaker D : Okay, hopefully there's some people here and I'm just typing Ask. And now what's your favorite venture? So this is how the session starts and now everyone can join it. Join button and immediately the chat bot starts. Yes. Thank you so much guys for joining the sessions. Really appreciate it. So now I'm going to talk to the bot and everyone else is going to talk to the bot using any number of messages, any language. It doesn't have to be English because GPT can translate any language, can understand any language venture that is currently being proposed. So if you haven't voted yet, please go to proposals channel to support the new venture called right. So we already have a few potential consensus positions which is hold out pattern together through harmonica and microflow. Thank you very much for mentioning harmonica here. Basically, yeah, the bot is listening to everyone and if there is any overlaps or potential consensus points, it tries to merge those statements and also generates the questions that would help us find common ground quickly. Currently it's sharing the same summary with everyone, but in the near future it will have separate dialogues with each participant. So you will get your personal questions and you will have your own dialogue with the chat bot which will enable us to make it more effective and also cross pollinate ideas. So that what could ask everyone about others ideas, other participants ideas. But basically this is how it works. It's really fast and we also are going to use different templates, so you will be able to use it in different contexts. Like I said, it can be about retrospective, it can be Theory of Change, it can be SWOT analysis, basically anything. And yeah, it will help you use good enough collective intelligence protocols. Thank you very much.
[ 0:56:54.000 ---> 0:57:24.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, that brings us to the end of our venture presentations. So if you haven't already, we really invite you to join Rndao. The Discord link is available from the brand new website which is available at rndao info. So if you have a venture idea or you want to join a venture, or you simply want to build along with R Dao, please get in touch with us.
