[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:01:22.000 ] Speaker A : Welcome everyone and welcome the new joiners. I'm Daniel, part of Arendao here with a few colleagues and a few other people who have joined us today. Very excited for a conversation with Thomas, who I know for now quite a few years. We met a while ago in Ibiza when these crazy millionaire had decided to bring a collection of thinkers together to talk about the future. And Thomas had some fantastic insights about network dynamics and also related about mating behavior and a bunch of other things very related to how our social lives have evolved. So I kept in touch, we have conversed from time to time over the years and more recently when we started a research project around community health. Tama's research and thinking definitely came to mind as someone who has really fantastic ideas in this space. And I thought it would be great to invite him to share some of his work with the Arendell crowd and part of our community. So, Thomas, over to you. If you'd like to give a bit more of an introduction, share about you and the floor is yours.
[ 0:01:23.000 ---> 0:01:43.000 ] Speaker B : Sure, thank you. Can I ask that everybody puts their video on, please? It's very disconcerting to talk to some empty pictures. Thank you. Great. I presume those who are not putting on are just not here.
[ 0:01:44.000 ---> 0:01:51.000 ] Speaker C : Hi, yeah, sorry, I'm just in the middle of the stuff but I can hear you fine. Thank you so much.
[ 0:01:51.000 ---> 0:18:33.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, but the question is not whether you can hear me, the question is whether I can see you. Great, thank you. And I presume those who didn't put it on are not here. It's just very we are learning how to communicate with each other and I think step one is that we keep our faces available for the others when they are having a conversation with us. A human doesn't come alone, a human comes in the community. And step one is that we provide the basic inputs to the others to engage with us or we can't engage. So Daniel asked me to talk. I'm Tamash. David Barrett, I'm a behavioral scientist. Daniel asked me offered you my entire set of research, which last year I did a 24 hours lecture which was sort of the abstract of my research. It was very difficult to cover it all. So maybe I thought that we could do is that I'll tell you a little bit about what I do and maybe some initial thoughts and then we could have a conversation and maybe I can pull up some graphs or some data from my own research if it's interesting for you. So what I work on is the evolutionary origins of network building behavior in our species. So we are an ape species and we exist in networks. Every human society is automatically switching to networks. We restructure ourselves into networks. And it is quite interesting because the structure of the network, which was very long time, was not researched is actually essential to the health of the community. About 35 years ago, some researchers, maybe you know Robin Dunbar's name, Dunbar's number, observed that we have sort of a similarish number of social connections to each other. And the way I imagine I used to for five years I shared a room with Robin. So I know quite intimately his thoughts. And we actually did the mathematical model of all of this together. And the way I think about this, or thought about it that time is that almost as if all of us have a shelf, a shelf for other humans. And when we don't have enough books on the shelves, we don't have enough others on the shelves, we feel lonely. And we go out into the pub and start randomly weirdly chatting to someone. And then we have too many, then we have to take out a book and then that's how we put in a new person in. So it's sort of a bit like that with other humans that we have this shelf of humans. And the reason that there is a shelf because it takes ages to maintain contact, real meaningful contact with each others. And all of that is we actually inherited. So if you for instance engage with my eyes, let me come a little closer and just simply look at my eyes on the screen and then we all know this within a few seconds we start having some kind of feelings. Those feelings are neuropeptides, social neuropeptides running on our brain. All of this is an inherited behavior and we share it with other apes and other primates. So these facilitated then to engage with these contexts. So that was Robbins and some others original contribution to science. But what they sort of missed out a little bit on was the structure among these books on the shelf, among these humans on the shelf. And it turns out that structure is very important. The way I got to this was realizing how different a family is compared to friends. So if you imagine that you have let's say I have two brothers, Pete and Jack. So my relationship with Pete is because we are brothers, is going to long lasting and will be there for sure. It's 100% probability that the relationship is there and it will last for our lives because we are brothers. And with Pete I will have exactly the same kind of long lasting, stable relationship. But in a family curious things happened which is sort of trivial again, because they are my brothers, they too will be connected to each other. So in network language we will have a closed triangle. If you have two friends, Julian and Robert, julian might be my friend, but it might not last forever. So less than 100% probable it's going to last a little bit on more unstable edge. And what was the other Robert? The same thing, but they are more likely than random to be connected to each other, but definitely not 100%. So very interesting that this is generally true for relatives, for cousins as well, not as strongly as with friends. So the first realization was that, gee, when we have family networks or large families, they are going to be much more interconnected. So suddenly, it's not only that how many social connections we have, that's not the only thing that matters. What also matters is whether they are connected to each other. And in traditional large families, especially in rural spaces where people wouldn't move away so high fertility, rural, non migratory societies, we would be given a group of people in which the interconnectedness would be very high. We would feel comfortable and then there would be a change to a society. In this change, we would have fewer kids. So about in 1960, years ago, the first time where we actually measured the number of kids for a species, all of them we had about 5.2 children per woman for the entire species. Today it is 2.5 turning 2.4. And with that, the number of social contacts with whom we can have a family group collapsed. So we are replacing people, those social connections with our friends. So one example is just to think about if you were to organize a big event in which you had to organize some kind of, let's say a construction in a village and in a traditional society, you would invite all the people in the same generation as you are. So you would invite imagine that you invited your siblings and your first degree cousins and their partners and the same thing for your unpartner side. So you would be cooking for that evening for 178 people, all of them same generation as you, all of them siblings or cousins and their partners and your partner's partner, 178 people. So you have a lot of space to fill up your social network. Those shelves, you would have a lot of people to put in there. When you go have a society of two children, in Europe, the average is about 1.6. Today, two children. You're only cooking for 22 people. When you have a society for one child per woman, south Korea is already under one and every society is going down. There is only two people you're cooking for, you and your partner. There are no relatives, zero. So this way, when we are moving from a high fraternity society towards a low fraternity society, and we have a very similar effect with urbanization and we have a very similar effect with migration and actually with mortal epidemics and warfare. Two years ago, when I gave these examples, I wouldn't have to add mortal epidemics and warfare. But suddenly both of them are unfortunately back on the agenda. So these have a very similar effect. We lose our family network, so we shift to friends. And as we shift to friends, we have in network language, if you know network language, the clustering coefficient falls. It's a very interesting phenomenon that happens to the society, because it turns out that clustering coefficient, the interconnectedness of our social network, is very important for us. This is something that we are born with to recognize the importance of that. And what that interconnectedness does is that it allows reputation based cooperation. Because if I know that we have 50 shared friends and we just met today, I will know that you are not likely to screw me, because our shared friends will report, I will report back to the shared friends, and you will know the same thing about me. So I will say, hey, let's do something together, and we can both feel safe if we do not have those shared friends. Suddenly the channels in which this reputation goes back thins out, and then the whole thing collapses. The corrective action collapses. If you think about it, there are a lot of different solutions to this problem. One is, hey, tonight we're having a party tonight, a dinner party. There's going to be Kate, do you want to come over? You guys are get on like a house on fire. But I'm asking you to drop a friend, take somebody out of your bookshelf of people, and Kate to take somebody off of her bookshelf of people. So my clustering coefficient goes up. Joining a club does the same thing. Suddenly, in a club, we are members of the same community. And then again, our clustering coefficient goes up, the interconnectedness goes up. Very interesting that the club opening frequency in London was exactly one generation after the upper middle classes. Fertility started to fall in the 19th century. And incidentally, the club sizes are so that they can function they're never too big, so that they can function as a way to increase your cluster coefficients. Anyway, there's a host of different solutions to the problem. The point is that unless we find ourselves in a highly interconnected social network, we feel horrible, we feel lonely, we feel lost. A lot of urban depression is coming from this. And to this suddenly comes a bunch of technological solutions, a bunch of technological solutions that create some kind of reputation without a meaningful human interaction. And then we start scratching our head because it sort of works, but it also makes us a little lost at the same time. Some of one of the solution is that simply adding reputation scores to people. Yeah, I don't know whether you have stayed anywhere recently which was not via airbnb or not via booking.com or one of these. It was very interesting. I used to have a professorship in Chile, and I used to commute between Oxford and Chile a lot, and I would stay always an airbnb place. And then suddenly somebody suggested that their friend's friend was renting at a fantastic place which was not on airbnb on purpose. And that was the only time I had a falling out with my host, the only time when there was no way to engage with any kind of reputation on both sides. So anyway, so we've got a bunch of these solutions and of course we get to Dows, which are, I presume this is what Daniel's new venture is about, to figure out how to connect these two problems. The problem that this reputation works, we are super sensitive to the reputation of others, but at the same time, we evolved to be wired to build this reputation via real human interaction. In a way, what law does is also a similar thing, that it sort of eliminates the reputation element, the actual cooperation element. Anyway, I don't want to go into that too much, but anyway, so this is what I work on. What I work on is how our societies are changing as fertility is falling, as we move into cities, as we start migration and moving around all the time, which is, I presume everybody on this call have done a lot. We constantly deal with new kind of people. And one of the most obvious tweaks is of course, to have something shared with others. Because if you have something shared with others, more likely that we will also have shared social connections. So if you met all the wine loving, Mozart loving sailors in Oxford, you met some of my friends. So the similarity actually signals increased interconnectedness, increased clustering coefficients. Srijan is asking, come on, Twitter followers. It's quite interesting how many of these social networks are signaling. The first thing that will signal to you is the shared what's? Shared with others. Especially shared humans with others. Yeah. So if somebody clicks on me on Facebook and we have more than 50 friends, I will of course accept, even if I have no idea who they are. No, I won't buy alone. Yes. Well, we'll see what happens there. Anyway, so this is what I work on together with some version of this, which is a made choice, because it turns out that when we choose a partner, a long term partner, not a short term partner, when we choose our long term partners, we take this into account. We take into account of how much our cluster coefficient is going to go up if we stay with this person. Brilliant. It turns all across different cultures. It turns out that some of our current shift from patriarchy to matriarchy or gender equality can be interpreted within this framework and so on. Cognition and knowledge systems are also dependent on this. So this is what I do and if you have anything to comment or even a question, let's open up. So what do you guys think?
[ 0:18:36.000 ---> 0:20:30.000 ] Speaker C : Hi. Just following on that from that. It's really interesting. Thanks so much. Can you hear me? Yeah. That's really, really interesting. And I love because I was working at AI startup that was looking at neural networks. And so I'm familiar with these terms of like clustering and coefficient, et cetera. But that's not my technical background necessarily. But I love the parallels between all these social relations, as you're saying, within actually how we are developing a lot of AI and machine learning systems. But then that last comment about Twitter followers is really interesting too, because the firm I'm in at the moment would do investigative due diligence. And we look at Twitter connections, for example, to see how people companies are linked because those relationships are important to track things, whether it's sanctions, whether yeah, relationships that weren't previously disclosed. And there's obviously a lot of regulatory as well as just other implications of that. But then obviously now, so Twitter can show those connections. Some connections are more, what do you call it? Like official than others because obviously there's a lot of people that follow someone but doesn't necessarily have a two way connection. And that just links with all the other sort of platforms, I'm guess LinkedIn social media platforms where relationships are tracked or like it's able to be discovered through these technology. Through these platforms. Yeah. Do you think that forms a danger if it gets into the wrong hands or not so much because they're not necessarily truly representative of social relationships because we can be connected on LinkedIn. But then between two connections from the outside, you won't be able to tell which one's stronger than the others. You won't know which one's stronger than the other. You just know that it's a connection of some sort. So, yeah, really interesting as we move into this more digital world and lives, just where do you see this going in terms especially when it can get into the wrong hands?
[ 0:20:32.000 ---> 0:23:44.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I do not know the answer to this. We had this fantastic we realized that we can tell the relationship type from phone communication patterns. The first time we figured this out was in a European countries phone communication network for one year or seven months. And we realized that if we know everyone's age and gender and their phone numbers and we have access to all the phone data, we can figure out who is your best friend, who is your lover, who are your parents, who are your kids. Pretty scary. And then we repeated this on an extremely large database of four years of all phone calls in a South American country and where we even had people's names. And in that part of the world, people have two family names. The first family name is the first family name of the paternal grandfather and the second family name is the first family name of the maternal grandfather. And from there we were able to able to test whether what we found in the European data set was correct. And it turns out it was theologics. And not entirely of course we have a lot of false science, but more or less from simply the communication pattern, we can figure out who is who. But of course, from that we can also figure out who's gay. We can also easily see who are the secret lovers. Surprisingly, and at least in Europe, GDPR is protecting us in that American country. I insisted to implement GDPRs, anything that came to our team had to be behind a GDPR war. And people in the phone company were laughing at us because of course they did not implement any of that. And so this kind of data has a sword with two edgy sides. We can have all kind of issues with it. So I do not know what the solution is. Some of my students argue that we should just do everything in the open and everybody sees everything and we assume, always assume that we do everything in the open. The trouble is that we don't have our evolved psychology. Social psychology is simply not capable of processing that. I will always ignore whoever's listening to on my phone because I can't process the danger from that. But they're super interesting. The entire way of designing systems, as what you say you're doing now or checking the interconnections for due diligence is a fantastically useful tool. Jason.
[ 0:23:48.000 ---> 0:24:51.000 ] Speaker D : Thank you. And thank you for a really interesting introduction to your work. I have a question that builds off of Isabella's comments. I think that I feel like we might be having a couple of different conversations here that I'd like to bring together. And so one of them you've given us a lot to think about in terms of social networks, in terms of they're being interpersonal and those relationships. But Isabella brought up the example of LinkedIn, which is not necessarily interpersonal, that starts bringing work relationships in. And so given that individuals are involved in multiple kinds of networks, what do you see as the implication of that for how we're relating to each other? And I also wanted to I'm thinking about this a lot just in the context of Dows, because we have a component of social network where you're buying into a value system and you're opting in, but there's work to be done and there's token compensation for that work sometimes. And so it seems to me that they sit in between these two different kinds of networks and so it might be fruitful to think about that interaction.
[ 0:24:51.000 ---> 0:28:14.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, so very interesting what you raised. I've been trying to think about it recently a little bit in that law when we cooperate with each other, because the law tells us to do so, in a behavioral sense, it is not cooperation. So if you and I meet and let's say we have some kind of prisoneral dilemma set up, we can cooperate or we can cheat each other. And of course the more frequently we're going to meet, we're going to be more likely to cooperate because of the repeated game element and the more higher number of connections we have, more likely to cooperate because of the reputation element. But that is given that's entire dependent on that game's payoff, what law does is changes the payoff matrix. And suddenly I'm not cooperating because I decided to cooperate in a behavioral sense. I'm cooperating because my payoff metrics has been changed so that it seems as if I was cooperating with you. But it's almost a mutual if you know, in biological terms, it's a mutualism rather than that is very interesting because suddenly then we exist in this forest of other humans in which we do not have an engagement in real social engagement with these others. That's the moment when we create a distinction between a coworker and a friend. Friend, is we cooperate with a coworker, we do some activities in our vicinity that is essentially mutualism. It's a very interesting distinction. And I think a lot of what's going on in redesigning organizations is moving towards a space in which there is a space to create real relationships. So we sort of move away. And we are clearly hungry for this. I mean, we feel awful when we are as apes, as human apes. We feel awful when we are surrounded by only this work colleague type of relationships. And we feel that our social life has emptied out. And in fact it has, because these are really the forest humans and they are not the actual real relationships around us. So I wonder whether when you have this really OD or multi level and multi type relationships with each other, that is the Corvete. But this is how far I have thrown so far. So if you have a solution, please tell me, because right now I'm just observing that this is an issue and I haven't found an answer, at least for myself, for what this really means. Srijan, I'm afraid. Srijan. I'm not quite sure how to pronounce your name.
[ 0:28:15.000 ---> 0:28:18.000 ] Speaker E : It's called Srijan.
[ 0:28:19.000 ---> 0:28:19.000 ] Speaker B : Great.
[ 0:28:19.000 ---> 0:28:38.000 ] Speaker E : Yeah, I had the same question as Jason, but I was even thinking about so nowadays, while working in Dows or Web Three in general, we come across many people who keep their identity anonymous. They use pseudonyms, which are common everywhere, and they do not even turn on their videos like you asked us to turn on our video.
[ 0:28:38.000 ---> 0:28:38.000 ] Speaker B : Right.
[ 0:28:39.000 ---> 0:28:52.000 ] Speaker E : So how do we build a connection with them and how do we sort of identify their reputation or what sort of a metric can we use to build relationship with them?
[ 0:29:00.000 ---> 0:30:50.000 ] Speaker B : There's a difference between being television and being an interaction or a radio. So there are different kind of interactions. When I do TV work, I often have either somebody stand there or I need a human interaction, otherwise I can't. And I think many of us have this problem in academia. One of the big traumas has been for people is that the students switch off their screens. And a lot of people in academia are effectively traumatized by it because they have to provide teaching in a teaching context. Without any kind of feedback. I'm not quite sure whether it is possible to have a two way bonding. It is possible to do some tricks with which the other side, if they are paying attention behind that closed off camera and closed off microphone, they engage with you. But this is not going to be a two way. It cannot possibly be a two way connection. Just the same way a television presenter cannot possibly bond with all those people who are watching her, whereas they might bond with her. So given the cues that the producer decided to provide so I'm not sure whether these when people are doing Anonymously, it's almost like, by definition is playing the system, playing the behavioral system. Yes, I'm talking here. Behavior. Laurie, you raised your hand.
[ 0:30:50.000 ---> 0:31:59.000 ] Speaker F : Yes. You said something really interesting about clustering coefficient and how nowadays we tend to have more fragmented networks. We belong to different networks which aren't as tight knit as they used to be, which results in us maybe feeling more lonely. I'm interested in you saying more about this because I'm not familiar with the mental health connection to that. Because the way I look at it, when I see a person who belongs to multiple cluster in the workplace, it usually means that they have higher influence. They're usually in senior positions. So I equate that to something good because usually it translates into high influence. And sort of usually these people are the people you want to leverage as a force for good. But I just observe my own personal network, which, because of traveling, et cetera, is actually quite fragmented. And I'm quite curious as to what is the impact on mental health because I'm not familiar at all with that literature. So more insight would be lovely.
[ 0:31:59.000 ---> 0:35:14.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. So it seems that we live ten years longer if we are in a very highly connected stable. That's when the happy human is in a healthy community. Sorry, but it seems that there are all kind of coping mechanisms that we have invented to deal with these. In the olden times, it was almost like an onion. So the metaphor people use were there's layers of onions? So you have an inner layer, a further out layer, and then this is how your social world works. But clearly not. I don't think it was really true in the olden times, but it's definitely not true today. So today we have more in these fragmented worlds in which we actually quite trying hard to increase the custom coefficient, increase the interconnectedness of our different fragments of social network. But it's tricky because one of the characteristics of these traditional social networks is that this is where our communal knowledge comes from. If you think about what happens in the whole fake news phenomenon, it's a network phenomenon in which our drive to exist in the same truth system as our immediate social network exists. That drive is what brings us to believe whatever they believe. I regularly catch myself following fake news. I have my identity as a heart hitting scientist. And what happens is that I can't really engage with outside it. So I'll give you an example. In this truth system, at one point there were a lot of people in my social network who thought that the Amazon is burning and it's awful that the Amazon is burning. And I thought oh, okay. And I shared some Facebook or Facebook, amazon is burning, the climate is going. Except that my ecologist friend told me that these forest fires were like regular forest fires in the Amazon. And even after understood that this was a group signaling, a group membership signaling behavior from me, that I shared this fake news on my lefty environmentalist side. Even after that, once I accidentally shared it because I sort of forgot because our collective truth was from that. So the problem is that when we have these fragmented networks, our collective truth, we have separate, different collective truths. And I think that is the moment when one of the tricks that we can use is that we say, I am who I am. In fact. So individualism is almost like a coping tool for this situation. Except of course, in each of these subnetworks, you're going to be that you're local who you are within that fragmented space.
[ 0:35:15.000 ---> 0:35:18.000 ] Speaker F : So fragmented network equal fragmented personality.
[ 0:35:22.000 ---> 0:35:28.000 ] Speaker B : At least fragmented strategies of how you deal with that irena.
[ 0:35:29.000 ---> 0:35:34.000 ] Speaker C : I'd lean to that hypothesis. Lori sorry, I think fragmented very likely.
[ 0:35:34.000 ---> 0:35:35.000 ] Speaker B : Say it again.
[ 0:35:35.000 ---> 0:36:11.000 ] Speaker C : Isabel no, I think that's a really good sort of like hypothesis or good thing to lean into and test about that because I know the initial assumption is that, okay, you think they have this wide network, which means influence, which means power, but actually to be able to split yourselves. I mean, there is also that science that you can only have like seven close friends or something. You can't possibly or there's a limit to how many good deep relationships a human can actually sustain. But yeah, I wonder if you're a part of all these fragmented networks to be able to operate in those in an authentic way, whether that means you've got a fragmented personality.
[ 0:36:11.000 ---> 0:36:12.000 ] Speaker G : Interesting.
[ 0:36:14.000 ---> 0:37:37.000 ] Speaker B : The actual data shows this came from Robin Dunbar's work when he observed that there are these layers actually, unfortunately, these layers don't repeat. So it seems that in general, we have sort of in terms of frequency of contact and emotional intensity, we have these fairly smooth but declining curve. But of course, individually it means that as a species, we don't have these layers, but individually we perceive that some number of friends, some number of social connections is going to be more comfortable for us than others. But this is purely due to institutional variation and very much due to the cost of maintaining relationships given the environment. So that's one of the things that I think the Dow. Innovation can deal with is how to create these systems in which the cost of interaction affects this idea, what kind of number of relationships people will end up with. Irina, you wanted to say something?
[ 0:37:38.000 ---> 0:38:09.000 ] Speaker G : Yes, thank you. I was drawn to the idea that you mentioned about there cannot be real cooperation in those sort of relationships. So I was thinking what came to my mind is what are the principles that we need essentially to know that it is behavioral cooperation, truly behavioral cooperation? And where in the digital space have you seen it?
[ 0:38:12.000 ---> 0:42:05.000 ] Speaker B : Right? So I would want to know whether the corporation requires either the repeat or that there's a repeat going to happen so we will meet again, or that there is some shared social connections via whom reputation happens. So, say, when I sit into Uber in London or in Santiago de Chile or whatever, we will never meet again. And we probably don't have any shared friends. The only way that the only reason this works is the number of stars that people give to each other, which in some countries are already broken. So I would want to know to what extent there's a need for this kind of repetition. There was a very interesting study. It was, I think, maybe six years ago, something like that. It was a NASA study when they were trying to see to what extent this digital cooperation, online cooperation, can form. If everybody knows this study, please stop me. So they had several hundred four person teams and they wanted to know what people the team had to work together for a collective objective. And what they wanted to see is what drives the cooperation in these. And there was a very OD thing that in the not so successful groups, there were some shirkers and they ended up the tragedy of commons. And there were some groups where people everybody pulled their weight and they were very successful and they won or near winning. But the most important factor that determined whether people are going to shirk on each other or people are going to cooperate with each other was how far their time zones were from each other. So when they were in the same time zone, then somehow it worked better as opposed to different time zones. So this is very interesting that suggests, I think, that there is this immediacy of meaningful interaction because I do something, you do something, and we constantly observe that we are engaging with the other all the time. And then it's also easier to remember because the other one is there. And then you can have the cognitive load of the corporation's lower, and then so you end up with these. But I think that the key here is that these new systems, I think, would benefit from triggering real interaction as opposed to and there can be all kinds. The best would be people could eat together. It's sort of doable. People could sing together, is it still not doable. We are apes who evolved to use our bonding systems to be together, to form a group together. Andrea, you raised your hand.
[ 0:42:06.000 ---> 0:42:32.000 ] Speaker H : Yeah. Fascinating. I'm wondering how markets fit in here, right? Markets, thinking of them as anonymous networks where small cooperative groups, people who actually do know each other at some level, then trade, often very anonymously. And this is something that has evolved much more recently. It's not the African plains ape activity.
[ 0:42:32.000 ---> 0:42:33.000 ] Speaker B : But it's pretty old.
[ 0:42:36.000 ---> 0:43:03.000 ] Speaker H : And we have adapted over, what, 50,000 years or something like that, to that kind of interaction. And I'm curious, what have we, as humans adapted to that kind of interaction that's different than just this reputation, the personal sub, dumb bar kind of I know this.
[ 0:43:05.000 ---> 0:46:14.000 ] Speaker B : Right? Yeah. So do you know Athena Ectopic's work on need based versus exchange based corporations? So, very interesting work. Originally, she works on cancer and a single cell corporation, and she realized that there were two different kinds of exchange systems, and then she found these to be present for human societies as well. One was the accounting based system, which is, I give you this, and we write up the value, and then you give me later something else, and we write up the value. And then they need to be and at the end of, they need to be the same. Of course, we are all dead. The other one is a needs based or demand based system in which if you have a lot of apples above a certain threshold, and I have less than a certain threshold of apples, I can go up to say, can I get some of your apples? And if only these things, two conditions have to be true. You have above a certain threshold, I have under a certain threshold, and then you will give me and then we don't write it up. And it seems that this system, people sort of oscillate among these exchange systems, and behaviorally, they're quite different, partially because when we are giving something sort of unconditionally, we have an oxytocin release in our brain, so we bond with the one to whom we gave. When we have an exchange, we don't have this kind of bonding. So it's very interesting how many of these situations happen when there are you can see in the financial markets, often there are all these sharks who are competing with each other, but then they go out and party together. Especially in olden times, before the anti Bribal regulation came in and stopped these, they would regularly go out for a weekend together. And if I observe what they're doing, they are bonding with each other. So it's like a very interesting double effect. There's this exchange based system, but at the same time, they want the social element element to it. They want the other kinds of bonding. I'm not sure if I'm answering your question. Did I answer your question? Athena Octipus athena. Where is this? How do I almost never use Google for this?
[ 0:46:16.000 ---> 0:46:19.000 ] Speaker A : On the bottom right, you can find.
[ 0:46:22.000 ---> 0:47:53.000 ] Speaker B : Octopus. Athena Octopus. She has a recent book on cancer, which is fantastic. And she's in Phoenix, Arizona, and she's running a project called the human generosity project. And that's what they do. They're collecting examples for these two different kinds of interaction and shifting societies that shift in between two. In fact, I know about this because we are trying to pull my theory and my work together with hers. So basically when super interesting. So what happens when foreign fertility and urbanization and migration rewires the social networks? So we have this need for a different kind of solution to organize our societies. And then at the same time, we are shifting from a need based, accounting based system. And is there a way to hack this? Theoretically that we are somehow we change some elements of the system so that we automatically shift to more of a need based or if it's some committees, a need based rather than the accounting based system. So I guess this is what the Erin Dow is also trying to figure out in practice what is happening. Yes.
[ 0:47:55.000 ---> 0:48:21.000 ] Speaker A : No, thank super, super interesting. And please keep us updated as this theoretical work continues because I do see a lot of for cross pollution with what we're doing. You had some practices inequality, institutions addressing.
[ 0:48:25.000 ---> 0:48:26.000 ] Speaker B : Not really. You're breaking up.
[ 0:48:28.000 ---> 0:48:52.000 ] Speaker A : Is still breaking faces. Thomas.
[ 0:48:54.000 ---> 0:48:55.000 ] Speaker B : Hello? I'm here.
[ 0:48:57.000 ---> 0:48:59.000 ] Speaker A : So can you hear me now?
[ 0:49:02.000 ---> 0:49:03.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 0:49:10.000 ---> 0:49:27.000 ] Speaker C : It'S still cracking. Wow. We can't be connected if we don't have Internet connection, can we? I don't wonder what backups we can.
[ 0:49:27.000 ---> 0:49:32.000 ] Speaker B : Have a fire and sit around it.
[ 0:49:33.000 ---> 0:49:35.000 ] Speaker C : Send up a flare.
[ 0:49:35.000 ---> 0:49:37.000 ] Speaker B : A fire? A fire.
[ 0:49:37.000 ---> 0:49:37.000 ] Speaker F : Yeah.
[ 0:49:37.000 ---> 0:49:53.000 ] Speaker C : Okay. No, that's sure, but then they've got to be in close proximity. I do wonder. This is a very tangential point, but if we lose Internet connection, electricity blackout, what can I do? Not everyone lives in the city. Yeah, but still interesting.
[ 0:49:55.000 ---> 0:54:53.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. So, Danny, your question is about inequality leveling and how the network's shape interacts with inequality. So this is a very interesting question because it turns out that when we live in a society that is hierarchical and we use the position in the hierarchy to choose our friends. So when we do similarity based friendship choice to replace the missing families, to increase our clustering coefficients just as good as other markers of other traits along which we can organize ourselves. So when we do that, there's a very odd thing happens to the society, to our social networks, because we sort of end up in these sausage shaped networks. The top is going to be connected to each other, so it's going to be the elite, and the bottom is going to be connected to each other, and middle are going to be connected to each other. So although people might end up with more highly connected social personal networks as a society, we're going to have a trouble organizing ourselves because there's going to be a big divide among the elite networks and middle networks, the bottom networks. So it seems that the best kinds of social, best kind of solutions when we provide people with a bunch of markers with which they can signal their type, their traits, so that they can choose each other based on similarity, which is good for cluster coefficient. One of the worst type of marker is a status hierarchy. Especially that is going to trigger status seeking behavior, especially for men. For women as well. But the male status seeking behavior is much stronger and when the society changes, it might trigger continuous status anxiety. If you wanted to see a mass hysteria about status anxiety, just think of what happened January 6 last year in Washington. A lot of the current populist fascist movements are using hooks into these kind of problems. I think the best way to do this is to create, of course you can't really create for society to end up with multidimensional signaling signals that are ideally not going to create any kind of hierarchy themselves and ideally something that we can change. So skin color we can't change, sexuality we can't change. So using these as traits or any kind of usually bodily traits are not particularly good for a healthy community. But who likes Mozart? It might be much better for that unless it's a signal of status and of course it's not good anymore. I grew up in Hungary where it was okay to like classical music without it being a signal and I live in England, but it is not. So it's a personal trauma anyway. So that's my brief thought on interaction between class and inequality and network structure. By the way, this is going to be one of our big issues on the global society. So the global society is one of the as it's emerging, it's emerging as one of the most unequal societies on the planet. Its level is the same as South Africa's, which is the most unequal society right now. And every society had major issues in the past that were that unequal. So not only we need to figure out how we are going to organize ourselves or the 7.8 billion turning slowly 9 billion humans into one successful collective action, but we also need to figure out how to do that in a way that everybody is happy and in a highly connected network. It's already a trouble and it's not going to be an unequal society. So clearly a major trouble, right? We've run out of time.
[ 0:54:53.000 ---> 0:55:26.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. Thank you. Thank you very much Thomas, for joining us here. It's been fantastic. Really appreciate it. Thank you for inviting me. Yeah, I hope we can continue this. I'll certainly ping you again as we advance with the culture analytics, community analytics research project that we are starting. And thank you everyone for joining. If you're interested at the bottom of the link I shared there. We can continue the conversation on Dao server. And, Thomas, I don't know if you have any closing words, but otherwise, thank you again for giving us your time. Really appreciate it.
[ 0:55:27.000 ---> 0:55:32.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you for inviting me. And thanks for great comments. Bye bye.
[ 0:55:32.000 ---> 0:55:34.000 ] Speaker G : Thank you. Bye bye.
[ 0:55:34.000 ---> 0:55:34.000 ] Speaker B : Bye, everyone.
