[ 0:00:05.000 ---> 0:00:50.000 ] Speaker A : We should just get started. We have a very exciting talk today. We have John Alexander with us. He is the author of Citizens Why the Key to Fixing Everything Is All of US and co founder of the New Citizenship Project, a book and company that works to shift the dominant story of the individual in society from consumer to citizen. We will be talking about pirates today, so stay. And I guess let's just get started. John, welcome. Thank you for being here. If you could just tell us a little bit about you and maybe the epiphany you had that made you kind of decide to question and leave your illustrious career in advertising.
[ 0:00:50.000 ---> 0:06:30.000 ] Speaker B : If there is such a thing as an illustrious career. Thanks for having me. And the first thing I want to say is I was kind of keen to join this conversation to learn as much as anything. So I am definitely not an expert in the field of dows and decentralized organizations to a huge degree, certainly not in their current form. But I'm a really curious student of it and I guess a bit more of a historian in some ways in this context. And I'm very interested in how our society changes and evolves, particularly in this moment in time. To answer your question, as you say, my background is in the advertising industry. Originally. I sort of stumbled into that world out of university, having only ever really wanted to be a professional athlete before that, which is a whole other story. But very early on in advertising began to ask myself a question that was really sort of framed to me by my first boss who said, what you've got to remember is the average consumer sees something like 3000 commercial messages a day and you've got to cut through that. You've got to make yours the best. For a while I was happy in the sort of make mine the best and then over time began to think more and more about really what are we doing to ourselves and to our society and to what we believe is possible when we're surrounded by that sort of intensity of commercial messaging. And where I got to was this actually a bit of an epiphany moment for me of going actually, this isn't just sort of an overwhelming flood of information. This is a story we're telling ourselves about who we are and what we're capable of. And ultimately, like long story short and the reason I ended up writing the book was because where I've got to is, I think, an offer of a way of seeing the moment in time we're living in through the lens of what I call of three stories, basically. And I call the stories subject consumer and citizen. And it's a sort of broadly historical diagnosis that as we'll dig into in a bit more in a moment but the broad suite goes up until the end of the 19th century beginning of the 20th we were something like subjects. The story we lived in was what I call the subject story. And in that story, the right thing to do was to keep your head down, do as you're told, get what you're given on the basis that the God given few who run society know best and they'll tell us what to do to achieve the best outcomes for society as a whole. That story kind of fell apart at the end of the 19th century, beginning of the 20th and out of the two world wars. A different story was more or less deliberately, more or less consciously constructed. And that's what I call that the consumer story. And in the consumer story the right thing to do is to pursue self interest, to look out for number one, to choose the option that suits you best from those that are offered on the basis that individual self interest will aggregate to collective interest. And that's the sort of the market society as you would. And what I believe is happening right now is that just as the subject story collapsed in on itself at the end of the 19th century beginning of the 20th I think the consumer story is collapsing in on itself. Now, when it came to that realization, I was still working in the advertising industry which, as you can imagine, wasn't much fun. But what I now work on and the idea I work with is that actually there's another story. And arguably the deepest truth of humanity is what I call the citizen story. And in that story, the right thing to do is to get involved, to contribute your ideas, energy and resources to the pursuit of the best outcomes for society as a whole and to invite others to do so on the basis that actually all of us are smarter than any of us. And that is how the best society will result. And I'm sure you can immediately I talk about Dows. Like I say, I'm not an expert in this world to anything like the degree that you all will be. But I do see Dows as one manifestation of that story emerging, this broad phenomenon, the work I do in the world. I run a little consulting business now that tries to use the sort of the skills of creative communication but to speak to people as citizens rather than just as consumers to invite people into their agency and shaping the world not just to sell them stuff. And I guess maybe the last thing I'll say by way of broad framing is I think the greatest danger in this time is that too many of the institutions and sort of power centers in our society are using. Their communications power to say shush little people just go shopping and trying to sort of tell everyone just to stay quiet and look out for their own and assuming self interest on the part of people. And actually all that is doing, I think, is pushing people into the arms of a resurgent subject story because we know that these institutions don't have the solutions to face the challenges of our times. The uncertainty and the kind of chaos that results from that is being sort of suppressed. And we know it's not working. And then into that void. The authoritarian voice comes through strong and offers a false simplicity, but one that's very attractive in this time. So I hope that makes some sense of the kind of underlying ideas I'm working with. By way of a bit of an.
[ 0:06:30.000 ---> 0:07:10.000 ] Speaker A : Opener, yeah, that was a great articulation, especially of the problem that we're seeing and maybe kind of why this is an issue that we want to solve. Right. And then you're touching on why are you here talking to us? We're building dows. And I think dows largely are kind of people building dows are seeing these problems and wanting to build solutions for that into the future. And so one of the fascinating things about when we talked earlier was this idea is a dow new Are these problems new? Have we tried to solve them before? And what does that look like?
[ 0:07:10.000 ---> 0:15:44.000 ] Speaker B : And this really is where the pirates came in, right? Maybe I'll unpack a little bit the story of the pirates that Sandy and I got very excited about together and then framed this session and attracted to. So the sort of short answer is no. In many ways, I don't think dows are new in purpose and spirit. I think because in the work I do, where I'm coming from, my diagnosis, the underlying argument is that humans are citizens by nature. We are collaborative, creative, caring creatures who want to get involved and shape the world. And when we are just sort of shushed, as I say in this consumer story, or told what to do and denied agency, actually, we end up wanting to seek agency and find a way to do it. Particularly when power takes it to extremes and shuts us down. And so, actually, as I've come to see it, the story of human history is, in general, the story of kind of excesses of power and then these sort of self organizing surges of energy trying to find a way to redefine the world, to organize differently. And my favorite example of this is the Golden Age pirates. Until I started the research for my the had the sort of what's his name, the sort of Jack Sparrow kind of Pirates of the Caribbean image in my mind, as I'm sure many of us do. But actually, when I dug into it, what I found is that pirates, the Golden Age pirates, the sort of second half of the 17th century, were some of the original, some of the most powerful sort of citizens and organizing groups, self organizing, self ruling communities that the world's ever seen, actually, to the extent where they had sort of pirate codes and social insurance measures, where there were set payouts if you lost an arm or a leg. And there was bounded inequality. So the captain and the quartermaster would only earn a certain multiple of what every member of the crew would earn, and there were countervailing powers. So captain versus quartermaster and all this kind of thing. And these things were enshrined in kind of pirate codes, in rules of those communities. And it even got to the extent where there was a whole kind of pirate community in Nassau that was on land and starting to really flourish. And what's so interesting about this is not just that that's what was happening, but what had come just before. And very few people talk about this. It's so interesting when you look back through history how little we sort of understand what immediately preceded what and what the relationship between those things might be. And what's so fascinating is that the golden age pirates came immediately after the English civil war and even more immediately after what's known as the you. For those of you who aren't enshrined in your English history, basically what happened was that Charles I, as king of England was an asshole, and he massively exceeded the reach of his powers, and a civil war broke out. The army kind of turned against him, and the commoners turned against him. I'm oversimplifying, but essentially he was overthrown. And there came this moment when Charles I was under house arrest at Hampton court palace, sort of a bit west of London and just a few miles up the river. The army and what we call the new model army, but also a whole load of political thinkers called the levelers and the commoners and so on, gathered in a church in putney, just a few miles upriver from where the king was being kept and essentially debated how you run a kingdom without a king. And it was in that space that in Samaria's church in putney, just down the road from where I used to live, where the principle of universal suffrage was first proposed. The idea that there's the famous speech by a man called colonel Thomas Rainsborough where he said that the poorest tea that is on earth has as much a say as the greatest he to have a say on the government under which he lives. And if he hasn't had that say, then there's no reason for him to respect that. Actually, when you trace back the lineage, what you find, like I say, long story short, I don't want to go too deep into this, but the rebellion, the kind of the uprising, was eventually overthrown, and Charles II came back to the gold. Many of the revolutionaries, the people who were proposing these ideas and debating these ideas, became the pirates and became the golden age pirates and started to live out and design these principles into the ways that they were living aboard ship. And I think what's so fascinating then is to go, so what happened? And why do we see pirates in the way we do today? And essentially, these guys were dangerous, particularly when Nassau started to thrive. These guys were dangerous to the established order, they were dangerous to the kings, they were dangerous to the empires. They weren't just crushed, but propaganda was used against them. They were portrayed as enemies of the state because they were a threat. And it's such an interesting thing that the power of the storytelling that has sustained through three and a half centuries to us and our preconceptions of who these guys were I don't want to oversimplify this. There was an interesting relationship between propaganda and reality because they were portrayed as evil psychopaths who are breaking up. They sort of leaned into that and started to behave in those ways sometimes. And really interestingly, Sam, in this lovely book, Be More Pirate, which is the second book you should read, sam ConIf talks about how the skull and crossbones the Jolly Roger was essentially the world's. Sort of a very early branding exercise because the pirates leaned into the idea that they were these dangerous psychopaths, created this symbolism, and basically did it so that most of the time they wouldn't have to actually fight anyone because people were so scared that they just surrender. And there's this whole really fascinating thing that I think is relevant to the Dow community now in several ways, like this idea of that through our history, we've reached these points where the organizing of our society ceases to make sense, and we've needed to step out of it and find other ways. And then, I think, a really interesting kind of cautionary tale of how you can be portrayed and what the dangers are to step into. Some of the pirates were genuinely really, as far as I understand it, henry Morgan and so on were genuinely kind of really trying to figure out how to run a society differently. Some of them got really excited by the psychopath tendency and started killing as many people as they could. And I think you can see that in this wave of technology emerging, some are really trying to figure out, as my understanding is that the R and Dao community are trying to do trying to figure out how you do this stuff, how we can design for the future of governance. And some are just going, we can step outside this and shove a load of cash in our pockets. And so I think there's yeah, I'll stop there with that answer, but I think there's some really interesting meat to be found to chew on by thinking about when have these moments come up elsewhere in our past and how might we learn from what's happened in those times?
[ 0:15:46.000 ---> 0:16:37.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, I just want to let that sink in a little bit. Right. What's really interesting there is that kind of historical point of time where people really shifted. They were like living on their ships on the sea and away from government intervention and kind of building their own societies and that was really fascinating. And then another thing that we had talked about is kind of the more modern day examples of Taiwan and really how these societies and these organizing groups can actually then make changes with the government. So not just kind of be sparked by the evils of the exorcist of power but also then how can you use these communities to then change things for the.
[ 0:16:40.000 ---> 0:24:13.000 ] Speaker B : Couple of other one very brief and then one at slightly greater length. Another story I love is the founding of the nation of Iceland, which is essentially people fleeing the extreme rule of King Harold in Norway in about 900 Ad and shipping off to Iceland, and they're creating a new way of running society. And actually it's called the Alping is the oldest extant parliament in the world, established in 900 OD Ad and still functioning on broadly the same basis today. Finding ways to really organize in such a way as can sustain a whole society has been something we have done in the past in reaction to excesses of power. The example you just alluded to Taiwan is my favorite story from research for the book for the book I wrote and is I think again really interesting to think about and learn from. I'll tell you the story briefly but in a bit of detail. The story starts back in 2012 when the government of Taiwan tried to basically launched what they called the Economic Power Up plan. And this was a pure example of shushnaful people just go shopping as messages. They said things like don't waste time talking about policies, we'll get on with growing the economy and you get on with your lives. And that was the sort of national story and it seemed to go down okay. But a group of hackers started to organize. Some of you may know this story and they called themselves Gov Zero because what they did was they built parallel websites to government websites all with the URLs G zero V TW. And on these sites what you could do was they scraped a load of data, made budget lines available for comment and upvote and downvote and they had conversation menus that people could download and use to discuss government business at home and this sort of thing. And it wasn't massive but it started to grow. And then in 2014 the government tried to rush through a trade bill with mainland China under the banner of the Economic Power Up Plan. And at that point a protest broke out and the protesters occupied the Taiwanese parliament and the Gov zero gang got a broadband connection in and streamed footage of what the protesters were doing all over the country. And what they were doing was using Gov zero tools to debate the clauses of the trade bill. So they were doing what they would have said that the government should have been doing. That point. The critical moment came because the speaker of the parliament came under pressure to beat the protesters out. And the fascinating thing is that he didn't. But instead everyone thought he was going to old guy all of this stuff, but instead he said this is what this space is for, this is what should be happening here. In that moment, the whole story of the relationship between citizen and state shifted dramatically. Within the speaker promised the protesters that the bill would get due scrutiny. It got thrown out. Within six months there were municipal elections all over Taiwan and candidates were elected from all over the country who had stood by the protesters. In response to that, one of the leaders of the hacker movement became a mentor to a government minister. And then two years on there was a presidential election and that person became a minister in their own right. So hacker to mentor to minister in four years and then four years on, when COVID hit, Taiwan had the world's most successful COVID response, which was essentially a massive crowdsourced response. They never went into lockdown. They talked about participatory self surveillance and making all the data available to people. They set up challenge prizes for people to create apps that would track face mask availability in cases and these kind of things. They even set up a phone line where any citizen could ring in with ideas for how the country's response could be better. Very quickly on that. My favorite one is there's a lovely little story of a six year old boy apparently rang up and said, the boys in my class, they want to wear their face masks because they're pink and they think that they're girly. So you need to do something to make pink face masks. Cool. And I think you should work with the baseball team. And apparently three days later they had half the Taiwanese baseball team, the little boy and the president on the national televised press conference in pink face masks, which is just like amazingly, like someone wrote a story about how a dow transformed the society. Right? But the interesting thing in this though, so I interviewed Audrey Tang, who's the Taiwanese digital minister, who is the hacker turn mentor turn minister. And one of the ways she talks about the transformation of Taiwanese government was that Gov. Zero never, always took two things, always took on the responsibility of trying to figure out how the state should work for everyone and never positioned itself in direct antagonism to the state. What they wanted to do was leave the door open for the existing state to come into their space. Now maybe that's a sort of a lovely story that you can tell looking back at the past three rose tinted glasses, right? And I'm not pretending, but I do think it's interesting, that thing of like, how do you do this work in a way that genuinely sort of tries to step into the responsibility that's needed. Like, how do we really accept what does it look like to really radically accept that our institutions can't deal with this and to have the magnanimity or something to actually design for a future where we know we're going to be needed. We just know that these systems, the systems we have today aren't up to the task. And I'm not saying dows are the only answer to that. I'm quite heavily involved in citizens assemblies and participatory democracy and all these sorts of things. But there just is a moment in time right now when the challenges we face and are really caused by the story from which our institutions evolved, and therefore, we're going to need new kinds of institutions, we're going to need new kinds of processes. So how do we do that? Work in a way that has the magnanimity to know that these people are going to feel attacked by this, to know that they're going to take it as an attack on them and as an affront, but try and do it in a way that allows and creates the space for them to move. Being this is right at the edge of my thinking and learning, right? So I'm not sort of saying stuff that I've got fully thought through, but when I look at the Dow movement and I look at R Dao and I talk to Daniel and to you, Sandy, I'm like, I'm so excited. And I'm kind of fearful as both both for the existing institutions and for you and where this might go. And those stories maybe express a little bit of why that is.
[ 0:24:17.000 ---> 0:24:18.000 ] Speaker A : What are you afraid of?
[ 0:24:22.000 ---> 0:27:11.000 ] Speaker B : I mean, the way I characterized it, someone the other day is like I think the moment we're in is one where the people who are on the inside of the institutions, the structures of power, many of them are very well intentioned and they're trying to figure out, but they just don't have the tools in this moment. There's a load of us and like I said, this community, the democracy next, who are working on citizens assembly, all sorts of different aspects of this, who are kind of at the moment, sort of knocking on the door on one side of the building. If you think of these institutions as a single building, just for the sake of illustration, and on one side of that building, one door, there's us in the broadest sense, and we're sort of building little houses and trying to figure out how that works and then knocking on the door and saying, can you come and look at what we're doing? Because I think you might find it useful. But we're getting increasingly frustrated that they're not coming out and looking right. And at the same time, on the other side of the building, there's a group of other people who are getting just as frustrated as us, if not much more so, for often very understandable reasons. Also because their problems aren't being solved by the people inside the building. And they've got pitchforks and torches and some of them were wearing helmets with bull's horns on. Right. Like, let's not be about the bush. We all know what we're talking about. Right. But from inside the building, those two groups can look pretty similar. And what I'm trying to wrestle with, what I'm thinking a lot about the moment, is how do we get those in those positions of power to understand that this isn't an attack on them, this isn't the QAnon shaman or whatever he was called. These are authentic attempts to try and figure out how the hell we're going to do life together on this planet, because that's what we need to figure out. And I don't know the best way to do that. And therefore I'm fearful because I think the great risk at the moment is that those on the inside of that building, even those with the best of intentions, are kind of shutting down. And the result is that the guys with the pitchforks and the bullhorns are getting angrier and angrier. Then it blows up.
[ 0:27:12.000 ---> 0:27:33.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, that would be really, I think, a good topic to kind of dive into. And also just thinking about the scale. Right. Taiwan is kind of small compared to some other large global powers. And then how does that kind of play a role in how much impact you can have from the outside in?
[ 0:27:33.000 ---> 0:29:56.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, and really valid questions. Taiwan is small. It's not that small. Sometimes people think it's smaller than it is. Right. It's 23 million people. Australia is 26 million and loads of people. And everyone was talking about Australia. Sweden's, like, 4 million or something, and people were talking about Sweden's approach to the Pandemic, and somehow we didn't think about Taiwan, even though there's this amazing thing. They published a list of 124 actions they'd taken in an English language journal on March 3, 2020, which was three weeks before Britain even went into lockdown. They're really trying hard to make available this stuff. But, yeah, Taiwan is not it is an isolated example. I think we see some of these things showing up in lots of different ways and places. And I guess what I'm trying to offer in my work is a language, by naming these things, naming subject, consumer and citizen, trying to name holes, not trying to sort of take ownership of them in any way, but trying to name something so that we can distinguish between things. And I think that's some of where we are at the moment, trying to understand what is a threat, what is an evolution, what's an experiment and what's just aggression and danger. So? Yeah. I don't know. I think these things, like the city of Paris now has a standing citizens assembly as part of its governance structure, which decides the theme for €100 million of participatory budgeting a year and is made up of randomly selected citizens holding the elected city council to account. And Paris is not an insignificant city, either culturally or in terms of population size. Some of these experiments are taking shape and scale, but we're in a super dangerous moment. Yeah. I don't know where people might take it.
[ 0:29:58.000 ---> 0:30:09.000 ] Speaker A : How do you envision the future? What's your hope for the future and your theory of change for getting there?
[ 0:30:09.000 ---> 0:35:47.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, well, so my hope for the future is that we can evolve the institutions and structures of our society into what I call the citizen story, that we could take Paris style, Taiwan style approaches to every institution. In the book, I go on a couple of thought experiments. One of them is, what would it look like for us to crowdsource a renewal of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? Like, how might we run a process that would actually kind of do that using combinations of I mean, Mexico City crowdsourced the Constitution a few years back. Some of these processes have been experimented with and figured out. I'm working at the moment with people in this community might love. Guy called Barretunde Thurston has a podcast called how to Citizen in the States, which is really lovely. Using the word citizen as a verb and exploring all of these questions from all sorts of kind of I don't sort of have a vision for the future in the sense of an answer, but I definitely have a vision for the future in the sense of a question. Like, how can we redesign our institutions and structures around the idea? Of people as citizens, as creative, collaborative creatures who need to be involved and will get angry if they are not involved, rather than around the idea of people as sort of lazy, selfish, individual maximization agents. And then, in terms of theory of change, I think a lot about Taiwan and that moment when the speaker of the Parliament endorsed the protest, essentially. And I've been trying to think about my best hypothesis at the moment is like a combination. I'm thinking about how does this moment of change happen? And I guess the theory of change is, if you start from the basis that humans are citizens by nature, then the theory of change isn't that we have to teach everyone to be citizens. The theory of change is that we are already citizens. What we have to do is get the dominant story of society to shift, get the institutions to speak to us as citizens rather than as consumers. And if that can happen, then the story can shift really dramatically, really quickly, just as it did in Taiwan, but on a mass scale. And so what are the ingredients for the kind of moment that a story might shift? And I think in my. Mind. There are two critical kind of ingredients. The first is you're going to need people in positions of power who can be open minded enough to open the door. And so how we work to those in positions of power to actually see and understand that this, as I say, is a polite knock on the door, not a pitchfork and a torch is one aspect of the work. I'm doing some work at the moment with a really interesting organization called the Apolitical Foundation who exists to train politicians all over the world. And I'd love to see them sort of engage with R Dao. That could be a really interesting place for this to go. The second ingredient, I think, is the visibility of the store of the alternative, right? Like how we make so in Taiwan. Obviously, the mindset of the insider in Taiwan was Speaker Wang, the speaker of the Parliament, being open enough to invite to acknowledge the protesters. That's what we need more of on that side in terms of making the story visible. The critical thing that the Gov zero gang did was got that broadband connection in so that the story could get out. And that moment of protest that the whole nation was watching then became a moment when everyone was watching protesters deliberating and discussing and forming ideas. And so how do we design for moments when that can be of? I'm doing some work in the UK at the moment on what we're calling the People's Plan for Nature, trying to use the fact that there's currently a David Attenborough documentary about British nature on TV to sort of make something to say there's an energy around nature at the moment. So can we do a citizens assembly and a crowdsourcing and a whatever process and try and get some visibility for that? It hasn't 100% worked. It's one experiment. But I guess all of that to say, my theory of change is about story, and it's about moments when the story shifts. Rather than being about sort of long term training. I think we have to do the building on the outside, and then we have to make visible what we're doing, and we have to cultivate the mindsets of those. We have to look for the people on the inside who are open and help them understand such that when those moments come, they can step into it. Ultimately, it's really the Buckminster Fuller theory of change. I don't know if people know the Buckminster Fuller quote, but he has this famous quote, he said, you never change things by fighting the existing reality to change something, create a new reality that makes existing obsolete. Which I think is very Tao. Right. But it's like, how do we do that and truly step into the power of what we're doing?
[ 0:35:49.000 ---> 0:36:05.000 ] Speaker A : I love that dow is an adjective. This very dao. That's fascinating. I love everything that you're saying right now. It's really terrific. I'm wondering if anybody has any questions?
[ 0:36:09.000 ---> 0:36:36.000 ] Speaker C : At the risk of having background noise, I'll pop in with one quick one. Learning from history, I'd love to know more about where the Pirate Code came from. You're talking about crowdsourcing and I think that's a real challenge that we're seeing. Was there one code? Were there variations on the code that you might go this way versus that? Where was it written down? How did it get codified?
[ 0:36:37.000 ---> 0:38:55.000 ] Speaker B : So I think you'll probably have to get into Sam Coniff's work. I'll post the link in the Chat in a minute to get into it in detail. The short answer, though, is that the first code that we know of was the articles of Henry Morgan and other Buccaneers from the early 1670s. That was written up in a book called The Buccaneers of America and that had four points to its constitution. This was essentially one of the first kind of written constitutions, you could argue. It seems to have been written by Henry Morgan as captain of the ship, which is a bit of a shame for the story. But throughout the pirate era it seems that each ship essentially had its own code or each collection of ships. So William Kidd had a different code. The Articles of William Kidd became sort of spread around the around the world in 1696. Interestingly actually, to your question in the William Kidd one, it's an agreement. It's called the article of agreement between Captain William Kidd and John Walker, quartermaster to the said ships company. So in that instance, it's sort of come from both of them. I don't 100% know if they were sort of sourced, generated by the whole crew, but who knows? That might have happened. You might have to dig into the literature more than mean coming more up to date. I love the if you haven't seen the example of the Mexico City constitution or the Icelandic Constitutional Convention that L m. Landermore has written up in her book Open Democracy, I'll stick a few links in the Chat, but there's a few leads to start picking up on. Maybe I'll start picking links on the Chat, but do wade in with more questions and stuff, as I do, if you like.
[ 0:38:56.000 ---> 0:39:56.000 ] Speaker D : Thanks, John. I'm thinking about, let's say, the strategy to knock on the door and I guess part of it would be find the governments, I guess, that are naturally most receptive to this. Like we have the El Salvador case that adopted, you know, bitcoin comes with a whole bunch of baggage of bitcoin maxis who is his own very strange microculture, very different from the Dao culture in many ways. So I don't know if that's perhaps a low hanging fruit we have now. Japan, I think, is making quite a few advancements and so on, but I guess I'm thinking out loud, but hinting at. Would you have any sort of ideas, as you have engaged a little bit more? Well, closer to the policy side of how one might think about knocking on that door.
[ 0:39:57.000 ---> 0:44:42.000 ] Speaker B : It's really interesting. I'd heard about the El Salvador thing, but I hadn't thought about it in this context. I I think my I don't know. I mean, maybe you so a couple of thoughts and then a question back to you. I think my instinct is that the places where some of the broader experimentation is going on, leaning into there and trying to make those relationships and say, how could some sort of currency, some sort of tokenization approach kind of add weight to what you're already doing? So the German speaking part of Belgium, the Ausbelgin region, was the first place anywhere in the world to institute a standing citizens assembly as part of its governance structure. So what might it look like to go to that region and try and say, how might we bring in this kind of approach here into your governance as mean? Paris is maybe a next step on from that. But it was the people who were invited to design the work in Osbellgen who were then invited again. It was the same people behind the Paris model. So there's something about getting into the places which are open to the innovation and trying to expand it. Framing this as governance innovation and trying to ally it with some of the other governance innovations that are going on, I think is interesting. And then, I mean, like I say, I'm doing this work with Apolitical Foundation, I think sort of trying to find those people who have probably started from a position of being inside the institutional structures, but are actively trying to kind of if you think about it, there's a realm of the possible. Let's say the realm of the possible is over here and the inside is here. The question is, how do we bring those closer together or how do we sort of send envoys from one direction to the other? And I think a political foundation, I think, is sorry, I keep figuring out which hand I'm using. Apolitical foundation is sort of that they're trying to stretch the boundaries of the inside. So how might we as those working a bit more from the outside, try and try and sort of equip them for those arguments, but maybe know that we're not actually anticipating them back to this thing of moments? Know that we're not actually anticipating them knowing exactly what to do with that, or anticipating them contracting a project or whatever, but knowing that if they know about it, if they understand it, they can help others understand it. And then when these critical moments come sorry, my brain is racing ahead of me because what I was then thinking is, some of these moments are going to be the result of crises, right? Like we just are going to hit more catastrophe, more crisis in the coming years. Like, this summer is likely to have a whole load of extreme heat climatic events in different parts of the world. How do we make something ready for that moment that can just be adopted? Because that was what happened in Taiwan. You could argue they built the whole gov zero kind of structure to be ready for when there was a crisis knowing that that would break down and that would come. So I think there's a couple of different strategies there that maybe we have to pursue all of at once. Like how do we find the places where we might be able to weave in? How do we find the people who are trying to stretch the story and see if we can from within and equip them? How do we prepare for the moments of collapse and make something sort of ready to pull off the shelf when that really one of the things I looked at in the research for the book was the whole was Miami Tech Week and how that came about with the mayor of Miami sort of saying, yeah, Silicon Valley, come on over. Take us over. You're welcome. How did that moment happen and what might a much more constructive version of that look like? What could be developed that then could demand an invite into a place? I don't know. I don't know if any of that.
[ 0:44:42.000 ---> 0:45:04.000 ] Speaker A : Makes sense but the how can I help moment that's what we call it. He just literally replied to a Tweet. Yeah, it was a Tweet that said how can we get San Francisco to move to Miami? And then the mayor replied back how can I help? And that was it. It became T shirts.
[ 0:45:06.000 ---> 0:45:07.000 ] Speaker B : That's crazy.
[ 0:45:08.000 ---> 0:45:45.000 ] Speaker A : Kind of launched a whole migration. I'm curious this idea of us being citizens kind of by nature and I agree with that but I think that we've been so conditioned out of citizenship behavior and so what kind of tools I think do we need to cultivate in ourselves to be better citizens? Because citizen with being a citizen comes being responsible right. And feeling responsible for each other not just survival mode for ourselves. Right?
[ 0:45:47.000 ---> 0:48:03.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. In a way I think about it less in terms I mean there are skills there's the skills of emotional skills and relationship skills and power skills and all kinds of stuff. And I'm also like I say, I think we have all of them in us intrinsically in many ways. I think a lot of the training work is more about I have a friend who talks about who has this lovely phrase citizenship is a muscle you build, not a cup you empty which I really like. And that muscle has atrophied dramatically because we've been essentially told not to use it. But when you start he's very funny and he sort of says when you start to use the muscle you start to like the look of yourself in the mirror and then you want to use it some more and it's something but there's something in that. But also the other thing that he says is when you realize you've already got it then that's when you really start to go. And one of the things the conversations I'm having with Baratunde, who runs the how to Citizen podcast, which I'll pop in the Chat, are about how do we acknowledge that actually this is already going on? There are places all over the world and in COVID there was mutual aid groups sprang up everywhere. Right? It happens. There's a lovely book by Rebecca Solnick called A Paradise Built in Hell where she goes back through the human response to catastrophe through history and finds that universally what happens is actually that people lean in and find one another and help one another. So it's not that we have this sort of veneer of civilization that if peeled away kind of then we all kind of eat one another. It's actually the opposite. It's like the veneer of civilization is actually what's making us be shit to each other. And in the moments when it peels off, like we find one another and help. I'll check a couple more links in the Chat.
[ 0:48:08.000 ---> 0:50:57.000 ] Speaker E : I'd like to offer that as an alternative to a Codified agreement. There are instances still surviving in a criminal underclass of basically traditions that go back well over 100 years. It's been, not surprisingly, relegated towards the outskirts of the larger societies and they are not at all based on written codes. And instead they have a system of elders, some assigned regionally where they basically go by the tradition to determine what's in and what's out to basically there are some very core principles of not affiliating with the authority and not hurting the civilians, they call them and so on. And some of these forms, when they less of a criminal and more of kind of like these guerrilla kind of semiautonomous groupings, they take more of a tribal approach. And some of the traditions are really fascinating. Like in both of those types, the leader is not allowed to marry because the leader's only allegiance is to the tribe, is to the clan and so they can have a living lady and it's of course, very patriarchal. But I mean, these are armed guys shooting each other, right? I don't know that women want to participate in that form of governance. It's like the life expectancy isn't great. One of the core codes is that the families and the kids are out of the crossfire. It's like that's a given that all the beef is between the soldiers of relevant groupings and the civilians and the families are out. So it's interesting that those apparently go back a long time.
[ 0:50:58.000 ---> 0:51:23.000 ] Speaker B : I think that's right. I think we will always form rules to live by. My worry is that those sorts of rules that you're talking about, that I think you're talking about tend to occur once chaos has already arrived.
[ 0:51:24.000 ---> 0:51:38.000 ] Speaker E : If you look at Cicer's speeches explicitly building by then on 500 years of Roman tradition. It's very much rooted in antiquity.
[ 0:51:40.000 ---> 0:53:05.000 ] Speaker B : Don'T get me wrong. I'm just saying some of what you're saying about in the criminal, the rules of look, leave the family out of it, et cetera. Some of those are actually what come in when you end up at such a fragmented scale. The rules of honor that come to exist in the Favelas or in the Shant, that's sort of a bit not what I am, however, really interested in how these codes emerge and how they're carried and the role of elders and so on that you're talking about. And I think there's a couple of different things. There one of the people who I've been talking to a bit recently and find really fascinating, and I've pasted his book in the Chat as well, this guy called Tyson Junker Porter, who's an Aboriginal philosopher. The subtitle of his book Sand Talk is how Indigenous Thinking can save the world. And he talks extensively in that about how there are sort of levels of wisdom and holding of truth that you need to work your way through, that you're not just able to share at no warning, and how these become the codes by which a society runs. So I think you're definitely right to call out. This stuff isn't always about sort of codifying and writing a constitution. I think from where we are now, I find that I'm pretty excited about the idea of also in terms of scaling.
[ 0:53:05.000 ---> 0:53:49.000 ] Speaker E : If you look at the native traditions where clans would combine into tribes and tribes would combine into nations, they could do it without sort of centralizing the authority that in the nation. Each tribe was its own separate thing. And there was no assumption that and that know also under Genghis Khan, where tribes very much retained their identity, they would combine in the military campaigns, but then go back home with the Loot and lead their separate.
[ 0:53:51.000 ---> 0:54:58.000 ] Speaker C : Want to I know that like a minute left. I think what I'm hearing and Walter's question and I'm thinking of too, is that one of the big challenges in this space is scale. You guys are talking about the awesome citizens engagement, but the stories that we're telling are talking are, oh, they're big countries, like 23 million. And I'm sitting here in a country of 300 million. And part of what's hard of being a citizen is I cannot actually have an impact at that scale. We could tell ourselves stories, but it really is very hard. So there's something about Small, and I think that's one of the things that we're learning in DAOs is how do we make that work in Small? And then I don't know if I'm going to ask you to answer because I'm even out of time. I'm super curious about how you see this relating to the Balaji Sunavasan's work on the Network State and the Charter Cities Institute and things like that. So this is a very different space. But talking about similar.
[ 0:55:02.000 ---> 0:56:47.000 ] Speaker B : Mean, the very short version is I find those things kind of frightening because I read them and read them as being rooted. As I say, in more like the kind of Miami Tech Week philosophy of how do we get away from the burdensome arm of the state? And how do the sovereign individuals kind of come together to find their own places without needing the little people? Which is kind of why, I guess, I'm interested in how do we actually design in such a way that we're designing for a whole society and for all of the different genius that can come from everyone. So how do we do the sort of work that Belaggi and the guys are doing but do it from a mentality that believes that starts from the idea that everyone has something to contribute. And the role of the governance design is to make it possible for everyone to make their contribution rather than there's some sort other I know I keep mentioning books and stuff, but I've been reading Octavia Butler a lot recently and her Patna series. And the distinction she makes between it's a whole exploration of the idea of the kind of the intrinsic and the instrumental, which I think is a distinction here. I feel like Balaji and those guys in the charter cities have some sort of instrumental view that it's all for the sake of I don't know what actually, but some sort of achievement rather than for the sake of a society which draws on and explores the kind of the vitality of every human being. And I think there's something possible in that.
[ 0:56:49.000 ---> 0:56:52.000 ] Speaker C : You want the same thing with a different brand.
[ 0:56:52.000 ---> 0:56:53.000 ] Speaker B : Sorry?
[ 0:56:53.000 ---> 0:57:00.000 ] Speaker C : We want something like a similar instrument with a different brand, a different mindset and a different goal than you're seeing.
[ 0:57:00.000 ---> 0:57:03.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, I think that's a great way.
[ 0:57:03.000 ---> 0:57:07.000 ] Speaker C : That stuff is Exit voice, right?
[ 0:57:08.000 ---> 0:57:24.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, that's a great way to end this talk. So I just want to thank everybody for joining us today. Thank you so much, John. Fascinating. I can talk for hours with you about this, so really appreciate you being.
