[ 0:00:14.000 ---> 0:01:09.000 ] Speaker A : If there is anyone else who would like to do an introduction, please share in the chat I'm going to be passing on to Max Punk, who I'm very excited to have here today. Max is an overnight celebrity in the venture building world. He did some really fantastic research and he's been gathering some extraordinary momentum. So I very much appreciate your content, very much appreciate the insights and your contributions to essentially demystify this model that has been a little bit ignored for a long time, but gathering momentum in the shadows and it feels that the time has come. So thank you very much, Max, for joining us and sharing a little bit more about Venture builders and the different ways that they change some of the traditional entrepreneurship game. Max, over to you.
[ 0:01:09.000 ---> 0:40:47.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, thank you very much. Let me start with just explaining what a startup studio is. It is an organization which launches companies simultaneously, takes some equity there usually from 20% to 40%, sometimes less, sometimes more, partnering with entrepreneurs. And the difference from other models like accelerators and incubators and VCs, is that the team of the studio works together with entrepreneurs for some period of time, usually longer than accelerators. For example, for one and a half year, from one to two years, usually. And they go through different stages from ideation to launching a company and getting revenue and fundraising. And usually after some period of time or after some milestones, like external fundraising, a company becomes independent. And because Venture Studio has big influence on the company, so they usually have a team of maybe from five to 30 people who works on this company. Together with entrepreneurs, they launch maybe two companies a year, four companies a year, ten companies a year. So this is the reason why they have more equity than just accelerators or VCs, usually. This is a bit about me. So I created three companies, bootstrap, profitable companies, experimented with many ideas, at least 30. And I've always had an idea that sometimes I will have a team which will test many ideas and launch some companies out of those ideas. But when I met a Venture Studio model, I understood that it is even better because you not only have employees in your team, but you have some founder mentality. People who can work and feel that this business is there, this company is there. I've published, so I did big research, published it, it went viral on LinkedIn. And since this, I recorded many video podcast, interviews with studio founders. Then we held the conference, online conference for Venture Studios. And in one week we also have a conference for Venture Studios. I'm in the process of launching Venture Studio family community, paid community, where studios share their numbers, their documents and playbooks, and also their investors. Yeah, this is like showing that some great people and studios shared my report. The name or the title of the report is Numbers of startup studios excitement and criticism of yeah, actually I want to tell the story. So I went on one VC party and there were a lot of people in venture capital and one of them said something like when he heard that I'm doing some work or research on startup studio, he asked me do you know what is the common refrain or what is the common phrase of studio founders? I said no, what is it? And he said there was $5 million here just a moment ago, where did it go? So meaning that it's very easy to lose money doing a venture studio because you pay to your team, you also invest in your companies and it's very easy to lose this money. I said okay. Great. And then he continues and says do you know how? He asked it something like to understand what a startup studio is and what it typically does, one should refer to Wikipedia and find the article about Alams house. Do you know what is an alms house? I said no, what is it? And he said no, go to Wikipedia and check. So I went to Wikipedia and it's something like an island's house. Was charitable housing providing to people during the Middle Ages. They were targeted at the poor of locality widows and at elderly people who could not loaner pay rent and are generally maintained by a charity. So I was how to say so it was ideal moment to start conversation with him because you feel that there is a lot of skepticism and criticism that venture studios are actually some places maintained by charity and doing some charitable work to help people who are not able to start companies. So this were starting and actually there are many problems that studios have and I will go through all of them and then we'll cover also why this model is still very interesting and why it shows some great statistics and returns for investors. So the first problem is it's very hard to attract experienced co founders to startups, especially if a studio takes 35, 50%, 75% of equity. So you cannot attract founders with previous exits. And if you will ask many studios, they will say that it is the number one problem. So the quality of founders but some studios they are able to attract second time founders. Sometimes it's even like most founders can be with previous exits if a studio can show enough value. And what is the ultimate value for many founders? It is like with the studio, co founder will earn more money than without. And this is a model of purpose built ventures a studio in the US. Who did some research and their model financial model on how an entrepreneur joining a studio which takes 20% of equity because of skipping some rounds of financing meaning that the studio finance the startup and because it has much more likelihood of success in creating a big company. So an entrepreneur can end up with better earnings partnering with a studio. Then another problem is, like, you have to have at least one $2 million to start a studio or five to 10 million. Usually in the US. It's more than like, five to 10 million. And in Europe or other regions, it might be one 2 million to cover first two years of operations, even maybe not investing in the startups. And yeah, here was a study by JSS Ten that their annual budget for startup studio is 1.36 million. And the average is even higher then broken cap. Table if a studio takes big chunk of equity, VCs are not ready this can be a red flag for them to invest in their startups. So for example if a studio have 50% of equity or even 35. I think it's already very difficult to convince investors. So you have to think either you can invest a studio, invest in startup until the exit, or you create some not capital. Needed startups that don't need funding from VCs or you have such a great track record that you can show to your investors that, look, we have 50% of equity. And yes, it's more than usual when a company is created by just entrepreneurs and they get financing from Accelerators or VCs. But look, we have ten x chances for this company to become a unicorn. For example, there is one studio actually hexa they say something like with us it's 1000 x more chances to create a unicorn because they created three unicorns out of about 40 companies launched so this is a challenge why do they take more percentage? Because they are actually like an institutional co founder, a phrase by Al Prostellen. So the co founder role where they have a team working hands on on marketing, development and also investing in startups. This is the reason why they take larger percent of equity. And you should educate your future investors. That okay. Maybe we'll take more equity than usual. But we also have a lot of resources and support for this company. So we are actually co. Founders not just like Accelerators incubators. With supporting role. Then it's challenging to attract finding to a studio because investors know how to invest in startups and investors know how to invest in funds as limited partners. But studios have difficult structures. Sometimes it's just like a holding company where investors buy shares. And the question during the start of the studio is how to understand the valuation of the studio, how to define it. Or it might be like, a dual entity model when there is a holding company and also a fund. And it is quite difficult to start with this dual entity model. So usually you have to rely on your existing relationships to founders, to investors. And this can be a source of money. And of course, Bootstrap and your studio is also great source of money because you show to your future investors that you have skin in the game. And you don't need to convince investors that this model is great. The difficulty is exponential. I heard of one founder of a studio who said that when you launch normal company it is difficult and they are usually unprofitable. When you launch a startup it's very risky and even more difficult because you are doing something new on the market. And when you launch a startup studio, it is like you have many things, many startups and everywhere something is going wrong because a lot of unpredictable things, markets and customers. So it's difficult to operate. But studios, usually they create their own playbooks how to create companies in an effective way. There is no much data which can be very convincing for many investors that studios, that investing in studios or their startups is much more efficient than unusual startups. Of course there is some data, but there are some questions and I think that there should be more independent studies on this topic to answer it. Clearly not everyone succeeds even such big accelerators MVC firms like 500 startups of tech stars, they claimed that they are launching their studios in 2016 and 2019, but now they are not operating. And also if you look at some like the map of studios worldwide or at the Venture Studio Index database with 400 studios inside so I heard from Matthew Berries that two third are inactive studios. So they tried for several years but finally they didn't succeed. And yeah, it's a difficult model and sometimes a success of a startup can kill a studio. For example, Max Lefchen, a previous PayPal co founder, launched company a firm in Fintech. But it was a part of his venture studio and HVF. And in two or three years of the studio, this company started a firm, started to work very well. And so he became a CEO of this company and focused completely on developing this company. And I know several examples which are similar to this. At the same time, there are many advantages. So I started with many criticism and problems and many studios really struggle with those previous problems but there are some ways to cope with them and some studios, they show consistently greater IRR internal rate of return for investors and yeah, I will cover now some benefits. So first is speed because you have an assembly line, you can compare it to a factory when earlier manual labor was less efficient, hundreds times less efficient than factories and manufacturing. And because a studio has some money and invests in its companies, of course they get faster traction and faster and faster exits also. So this is small part of my study where I took the Venture Studio Index database with 1100 startups of the studios and to those startups where on Crunch base there was data on in what years they were founded, in what years they had exits and got funding. So I compared it to some benchmarks of usual startups and it shows that startups created in studios usually get to seed funding to series A-B-C from 41% to 51% faster and to exits acquisition or IPO about 31 33% faster than usual startups. Accumulating of industry expertise and experience is one of the reasons why this model is effective. I can give one example a studio I like. It is OSS Ventures from France. They create b. Two b. SaaS for factories. I interviewed the founder in and first he had previous exits in this field b two B SERAS for manufacturing, series B exit. Second, they visited factories for more than 800 times or something 860 times they visited different factories, collected hundreds of pain points. So when founders join the startup studio, they give them base. These are our partners, these are our more than 1000 customers in different factories in Europe, the US. And because they can really understand this niche very well, they are able to attract great founders. So they get 8000 applications from founders each year and they launch five companies with ten entrepreneurs. Four companies will be successful out of those five. And what's interesting that out of the founders they attract 60% had previous exits and this means that they take 25% of equity in startups. They invest five hundred K euro per company and the traction of the startup studio is very fast. So you can check that in four years they reached 24 million arr of their portfolio companies. Eight companies out of 15 got serious a finding. This is an example of accumulated of industry expertise. No one VC firm can be compared to this studio because no one VC firm visited factories more than 800 times. So they visit factories now like twice a week or something. Savings and sharing of the studio Team as a startup you don't need many full time specialists and you can attract agencies or freelancers. But it might be not so effective as if you have a studio at cost or providing services for the equity and also giving you expertise. So it's more effective than either hiring full time specialists for some positions like lawyer for example, or working with agencies. Investment Efficiency so there is a study by Jesus and global startup Studio Network done in three years ago which shows that startups created in studios based on more than 200 startups showed higher IRR than traditional startups. And then Tbpi is like multiplicator of how much is the valuation of your equity in comparison with amount of money you invested. For example, if you invest if an investor invested $1 million so in some time they can see that they have 5.8 million valuation if they invest in. So this is the sample of this study. So some studios and some of their startups more than 200, they showed bigger IRR in comparison with traditional startups. And also I saw recent research by PitchBook which compared some TVPI efficiency of investments in startups of accelerators and it also can be compared to Y combinator in terms of TVPI. This might be comparison, maybe not so accurate but at least there are some signs that some great studios show consistently great results with their startups. Yeah, then reduced risks because usually the studios have some type of playbook or stage gate model when they invest in portions of capital. So for example, they invest 50K for the first two months then in some time they invest more 100K for the next three months if a startup does well and if something is going wrong, for example during this stage, during these four months they had to get revenue but they don't get this revenue. They might decide to pivot the startup or stop it and not invest anymore and use the team for other ideas and so it is a way to derisk. It might be difficult to startup founders when they meet some obstacles to decide that okay, we are going to completely pivot because this idea doesn't work and studios can pivot cold bloodly. So this might be a huge advantage. Then entrepreneurs can dedicate more time for the core business task which is like understanding what the market needs, what your customer needs and building the product. Then like to figuring out how to set up I don't know, domain email or how to create some initial agreements between founders or between investors and the startup and so on. So like incorporation, legal, maybe some marketing but I believe that the value of a studio is to help startup reach product market fit faster and with more likelihood of reaching product market fit than independent startup. And also for entrepreneurs it's huge advantage to get access to funding and to network because studios usually develop their network of experts, investors, VCs, who can invest money and who can also make some pilot projects partner with corporations, clients and so on. And for studio founders or studio partners I think that this model can help to those entrepreneurs who have a lot of different ideas and who want to implement them. Also one way to do it is create your portfolio in parallel and develop it in parallel. I think actually that there is some psychological problem at least for me which is the shining object syndrome. So, like when some idea comes to me so I think, oh wow, this is super idea, I want to launch it. And I'm more inclined to launch Venture Studio than other entrepreneurs. And of course, there is ongoing dilemma between whether to focus on one thing and do it extremely great and don't have any burn all bridges and only one idea or like doing some in parallel. So there are pros and cons of each approach. Yeah, my vision for how to launch how to build a great studio consists of several steps. Yeah, I have this on this slide. Let's use ninja techniques. This presentation I did something like two months or three months ago. And many people already know what I did during my online meetings. And yeah. What I do? Usually I stand up and say hello, how are you? How am I able to work 12 hours a week for last month? I do this ninja techniques, let me try to do something more. And usually when people see this, they smile. They like oh wow, you are memorable. So I want this presentation to be memorable. This is why I do this. Yeah. So what are great ways to launch a studio? The first you have to answer the question what is the number one problem? And the number one problem is that the quality of founders defines the success of a studio. So if you are not able to attract great founders, if you are attracting only first time entrepreneurs, young people, maybe students, I know some studios who succeed with this, but more often it is more difficult to build successful companies. And there is much data showing that second time entrepreneurs, they have much more successful rates than the first time founders. So for example, VCs almost blindly invest in those with previous exits. This is also the reason why it's great when studio founders and partners had previous exits, because it's much more easier to attract funding. They have also more probability of exiting company and IPO acquisition. If they had previous entrepreneurial experience, then like nearly 80% of unicorns had at least one co founder with previous founding experience. And there is also a study which shows that VCs just generate more returns. An interesting addition to this is that even if VCs generate higher returns from investing in second time founders, one study shows that top tier VC firms cannot add additional values to top tier one founders. So how to understand this? So they compared like there are four categories. Usual VC firms without big name just invest money and top tier VC firms with big name. And also there are founders just usual founders without previous big exits and there are top tier founders with great exits. So what they compared is they compared like if a great founder, if usual founder goes to usual VC firm, it is good. If usual founder goes to top tier one VC firm, it is hugely beneficial for usual founder because they can show look, a 16 Z invested in us. And for many investors it's a signal oh wow, big name invests. So this is great company. I will also invest. So this top tier one VC firm can add value. But for this top tier one founders, they have no difference. Either great VC firm or just usual VC firm invest money in them. And so I think that this is an opportunity gap for venture studios. So it means that if a studio can prove that because of their expertise in specific field, they can add so much value to those founders that for them it's like 1000 x to create a unicorn so it's very compelling to go there. So I think that this is the difference between VC firms accelerators and Venture Studios or startup studios accelerators, VC firms and Venture Studios. Yeah, I wanted to add something here about Venture Studios, about VC firms. Yeah, I remember. There is also one study showing that VC funds who had platform roles inside meaning that there are some people in a big VC fund who helps their startups with marketing PR or I don't know, HR functions so these VC firms generate high returns. This study was done by platform VC community I mentioned in my research and it also shows that hands on support to startups is creating more likelihood of success of companies. Yeah. Then I continue. What must be the conditions to make it unreasonable for top tier founders not to join a studio? And the answer is you have a niche focus so that a studio in three years can say we are the best at building such startups in this market. And your North Star question must be like what is our niche? Where we are uniquely positioned to launch our studio and to attract the best advisors, investors and entrepreneurs in this field to finally create this network effects loop where more expertise attracts even more expertise and your startups becoming more successful and it makes unreasonable for top tier founders not to join a studio. Of course if a studio takes maybe 20 or 25% which is more compelling to second time founders? Nifty meaning that you try to gather all experts around you and the results of study which showed that it's founders with three years of niche experience meaning that previously they created companies in the same field they are like 2.17 times more likely to establish a top .1% high growth startup. I believe it's very beneficial to become a niche studio and to start with a small focus and then you create a lean approach with your startups meaning that you try to create companies which generate revenue. Maybe it's not the case for Biotech and deep tech and some other companies but mainly if you can generate revenue faster, I believe it's the biggest value of the studio find product market feast faster then also and having positive unit economics. There is a graphic showing that in 2012 for example only 28% of serious A companies had revenue but in 2022 73% of seed companies already had revenue. So this means that focusing on revenue might be easier to attract funding and a lean studio meaning that you can use a geographic address inside your studio. For example, I interviewed one African studio who are doing some tourism startups in their studios and their customers are from Europe and North America, but at the same time they are able to have part of their team getting African smaller salaries. And this creates some advantage that you can be modeling. Studio and studios located in UK, US, canada and other economically developed countries. It might be efficient to have some team somewhere in developing countries to have more efficient development products. Also AI tools. Using AI tools. So it's mandatory how to say it's necessary now to make all processes faster during launching startups. For example, Michael manlier shared that they use some AI tools even for idea generation inside their studio builders. And also the StageGate model not for startups. Usually there is StageGate model for startups, but for studios. Yeah, this is growth of studios worldwide. Still I believe that there should be developed some standards to make it easier for external investors and founders to join in terms of technology adoption lifecycle. There is a book Crossing the Chasm and there are five stages of market. I believe that for studios it's still early adopters and maybe someday studios will go to early majority when many VCs will have ability to invest in studios directly and in their startups even if it's a bit more equity owned by a studio and where many people will understand the studio model and more optimism will be about the model. And I suggest here like a stage gate model for launching and finding the studio to make it short. So you have four stages starting with trying to solve the chicken egg problem or the cold start problem, when you have to convince at the same time investors and founders to join and advisors to start. If you succeed, if you can attract founders good enough, you attract finding up to $2 million for two years of operations. You are launching a holding company of a studio and you're targeting from two to four companies a year. And if you can show TVPI of, let's say ideally three plus three, five or more for your investors, that like you started with 2 million capital. Now, the value of equity in startups owned by a studio is let's say not 2 million, but 6 million or 10 million. It's a good sign to show investors and raise the fund. So usually studios have dual entity models, holding company plus a fund. And so you're raising the fund for several years, four years, and then you have your first exits, ideally during those six, seven years. And then you can become an independent studio, launch new funds and invest and create more startups. This is the traction of one studio hexa. Earlier they were called e founders. Actually there is studio e founders, but they created an ecosystem consisting of e founders, logic founders for fintech companies and three founders for web three. So they created three unicorns. This is the attraction from 2011. I interviewed also one of the founder of the studio, Quentin Nickman. Here is my presentation. If you want to know more, go to check my research. It will take 1 hour to read, but it will save you much more time to understand all nuances and details of.
[ 0:40:52.000 ---> 0:41:25.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much, Max for the presentation. I'm going to open it up to questions and comments as well. If anyone in the audience want to share a little bit about your own experience and reflections, just raise your hand using the reactions button and I'm going to open up. I'm super curious about cash cow businesses and it seems to me that that could be an ideal strategy for a studio to start by building some sort of cash cow business that can cover some expenses and then focus on other things. But I'm curious what you've seen in that regard.
[ 0:41:27.000 ---> 0:42:44.000 ] Speaker B : I think it's a good model. I also have experience in creating just bootstrap companies without funding and having some revenue streams to cover your costs. I think it's very healthy approach and ideally if the sphere of your expertise is where you can create cash cow businesses in a fast way so it is a great model. Maybe you want to have some additional I know that some agencies, they have their already cash flow business and they start doing some Venture Studio model as their part and yeah, this is usually one of the cases of Venture Studios, but maybe it's a bit different from true Venture Studio model. When they have a fund, they raise the fund and they invest in companies but also can be an approach yeah, when it's very difficult to fundraise.
[ 0:42:46.000 ---> 0:43:04.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, because I'm seeing from a lot of agencies that sort of dream of doing this, but they never can quite seem to make the jump. Like the agency business keeps on taking priority and they decide businesses, they sort of die or never take off really. At least in the cases I've seen personally.
[ 0:43:05.000 ---> 0:43:56.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. Because I think one of the problem with agencies is usually it's very difficult to focus on one specific area and they pursue many areas simultaneously and it's very difficult for founders to understand that joining this studio gives me much higher chances of success because they cannot be very niche focused maybe. But of course they also have advantages like faster development. Usually they know how to create products and it's cheaper than just going somewhere.
[ 0:43:59.000 ---> 0:44:02.000 ] Speaker A : Understood. Yeah, makes sense. Davi, over to you.
[ 0:44:03.000 ---> 0:45:02.000 ] Speaker C : Thanks. And thanks Max for the presentation. Super interesting stuff and I'm definitely going to read the report later on. I have two questions. One is regarding kind of governance agreements between founders and the Venture Studio. You mentioned the example of a business is not going super well and the Venture Studio has a benefit of basically just saying let's shut this down and just relocate the talent to other businesses that are doing better and focus the capital on that. I imagine that's not always the case. It really depends on if the Venture Studio has the power, the governance right to do that because the founders themselves don't necessarily want to because of their biases and emotional investments there. So what are the kinds of agreements around governance that you. See around that. And if for example, the ones that centralize the governance power and give more power to the venture theaters end up being successful because they have that cold blooded capacity to allocate very rationally the resources.
[ 0:45:04.000 ---> 0:46:47.000 ] Speaker B : First, I want to make an emphasis on studios. They want to keep the great talent inside. So even if founders meet obstacles with some idea or some company, if the founders are excellent, I think the studio will do everything to keep them and to say them okay, this doesn't work, let's try another. We have a backlog of 300. Ideas, ideas. This is the first. The second, I think that every studio is different in their relations with founders. I think that they usually have some model which founders understand from scratch. That for example, okay, there is like five stages. You have to go through all of this and then get external funding, sheet funding for example, or studio will invest. And in order to make a studio invest, we have to do this and this and this. So I cannot give you overview of what percentage of studios, what terms they have with founders but I think that first, great founders, studios don't want to lose them and second, founders understand the terms of the studio from scratch. Okay?
[ 0:46:48.000 ---> 0:47:52.000 ] Speaker C : And the second question was around if you have seen or heard of any examples that are working with kind of symbiotic relationships between the different ventures and the studio itself. Either by for example, giving shares of the holding company to the different ventures so that not only the holding owns a part of the ventures, but the ventures own a part of the holding as well. And therefore they have this interesting incentive alignment and of sharing resources and whatnot or by even giving LP shares to the founders so that they have also this perspective like collaborating to the whole and an incentive to stay, as you say, retention of talent and collaborating amongst themselves. So if you've seen something like that or even something we've been studying is revenue pooling, right? Like 1% of revenues goes into a shared pot that then gets allocated amongst all the different companies and how that might benefit the probability of success and reduce probability of failure of the companies.
[ 0:47:55.000 ---> 0:49:26.000 ] Speaker B : I don't know examples when it's done in some huge scale. But I know that studio I mentioned OSS Ventures doing B, two B sales for manufacturing, visit factories 800 times. So I know that every employee has shares in their studio. Earlier I heard probably I read one example in the book called Startup Studio Playbook and there was one studio which was relying only on like the whole studio is owned only by employees. And if I understood right, its studio doesn't work now. But I know some initiatives of startups who create some pools of shares of startup founders to derisk and to give one access to. If we'll have some successes in our community everyone will get benefit from and to also stimulate helping each other and collaborating between different startups. I think it might work. Maybe you can share. I think you know much more examples than me.
[ 0:49:26.000 ---> 0:49:35.000 ] Speaker C : Yeah, no, actually I'm looking for examples. So that was the focus of my question. So if any of them come to mind, I'd love to hear them. But thanks for the presentation.
[ 0:49:35.000 ---> 0:49:36.000 ] Speaker B : Okay.
[ 0:49:41.000 ---> 0:51:00.000 ] Speaker A : Let me ask then a little bit about the parallel approach and a bit more what you have seen. I think like you, I'm someone who enjoys a lot more having two free projects that I'm focusing on rather than a single one. When I'm focusing on a single one, my energy goes down and essentially I feel I'm a lot less productive that way. But as you mentioned, there is the risk of going too far the other side. I imagine a good studio should have a good balance in between these personality types. Some that like jumping across, others that are a lot more dedicated to one track. So I wanted to ask you what you've seen respective to, let's say contribution. So there is for I'm trying to remember the name. I think it was like Concilience Ventures or something like that that launched by a guy who used to lead acceleration at Microsoft and it was kind of like a more networked startup studio where you would have essentially all of these freelancers that could contribute across multiple teams or other things like that. I don't know how successful or not they've been, but yeah, I kind of wanted to ask you a bit more about this area if you have any thoughts or interesting examples to share.
[ 0:51:01.000 ---> 0:52:07.000 ] Speaker B : Maybe I didn't understand the question. There are two types of people. Even I remember my first million podcast where in one episode they were discussing this model with startup studio model with Jack Abraham from Atomic and probably from this episode something like Shen Puris shared something like I'm a shining object syndrome person launching many companies simultaneously and it gives me energy. And Sam says that okay. I think that entrepreneurs should focus on one thing. So there are just two types of people. I also believe that focusing is very beneficial, but if you at least have this inclining to launch, many companies do it in one niche. So you are a leader. You are the leader in this field of your startups you are launching. Maybe you can ask some additional questions about this.
[ 0:52:09.000 ---> 0:53:09.000 ] Speaker A : No, I think that makes sense. I'm wondering in the configuration of the talent within the studio, it makes sense to have a few specialists that are just doing a specialist thing in one startup, like a database design specialist. You don't need them full time in any startup ever until the thing becomes gigantic. So it makes sense to have a lot of people like that. But I don't know, I guess it's just for me an area I'm trying to wrap my head around of thinking where is a good boundary or in which domains? Does it make more sense to have this sort of free floating specialist versus allocating just capital to the startups to figure it out themselves versus more dedicated talent? But anyway, maybe there is a question here from Andrea that I would also love to know your thoughts on how niche does a niche need to be?
[ 0:53:11.000 ---> 0:56:25.000 ] Speaker B : There is a book by Andrew Chen. The call start problem. Andrew Chen is GP of and recent horror fund, probably for gaming. And this book is about network effects and somewhere he mentions that many great things which people use today as big companies, I don't know, Instagram or something like this, they started early as a toy and so strange niche things that are just for fun might finally ended up as a huge company unicorn or something like this. This is my answer to people who say that niche is too small. There is no $1 billion market. Investors will invest in us because it's very, very small. But I think that it's much more important to answer to the question in what we are the best team in the world, or at least in our region, than having big markets, but not being the best one there. Usually the strategy for all companies is to become a leader at a small beachhead market and then join adjacent markets with similar segments or similar products, and it helps you to build. But without this, like becoming a leader in some niche, it's extremely difficult to attract great founders and to win over some customers that will understand that, okay, if I want to prioritize this value, I have to go to this product. So this is why I believe that even if it's small, there is a book I don't know how to define how niche does a niche need to be. I know, for example, there is a book, Discipline Entrepreneurship, consisting of 24 steps from one professor from MIT. And he said so this book was written probably something like eleven years ago. And he said that you have to define your market. Ideally, it should be from 5 million to 100 million max, the size of the market. So your product should target total addressable. Market for your product must be not more than 100 million, not less than 5 million. But it was ten years ago. Now might be something like, I don't know, 20 million or 10 million at least or something, but still depending on the market. So I think for the US. Is bigger, for other countries it might be less.
[ 0:56:26.000 ---> 0:56:36.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much. We'll definitely check it out. Max, we're running out of time. So thank you very much again for your presentation and participating today. Thank you all for coming.
