[ 0:00:10.000 ---> 0:00:25.000 ] Speaker A : Today we'll be talking with Joshua. He's the author of Blockchain Radicals how Capitalism Ruined Crypto and how to Fix It. So, yeah, really appreciate you having on and yeah, if you want to go ahead and take the stage and kick things off.
[ 0:00:27.000 ---> 0:28:57.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, sure. Thanks again for having me. So in case you guys don't know me, I have a blog and a podcast called Blockchain Socialist that I've been running for a bit over three years now. And kind of what I've been doing is kind of on the nose, but I've kind of exploring this intersection of crypto and left wing politics. And so I just need to I can just share, right? Okay, I will just start sharing then. I have a canva presentation that will be probably nicer to show. But yeah, I wrote a book called Blockchain Radicals how Capitalism Ruined Crypto and how to Fix It. Came out August eigth. So only been out for about a month and a half or so and it's out through repeater books in the UK if you know them. But yeah, I've been running this podcast called The Blockchain Socialist. I explore the intersection of crypto and left wing politics. I've been working in the blockchain space for about five or so years. I've also co founded a project called Breadchain Cooperative, which is kind of like my attempt at trying to put a lot of the things that I talk about in the podcast into practice. So I try to kind of be more than just kind of like a talking head or like a media personality or something like that. I'm also interested in kind of building things since that's kind of like the place where I came from was building applications and such. And then I'm also filming a documentary on crypto called Crypto Futures, which Daniel has been interviewed a couple of times for. And then in case you're interested, kind of more recently on the podcast, I've been exploring the idea of or exploring the book, the network states and kind of some of our criticisms. Been doing this with Blockchain gov, including Primavera di Filippi Vinohe, and kind of presenting an alternative conceptual framework for some of the ideas in the book. But so that's a bit about me. Your picture on the right is just my avatar that I usually use. What I wanted to do for this talk is just kind of talk about the high level framework that I use for approaching the book. I was kind of approached by repeater books. They kind of just asked me, hey, we would love a book about blockchain from a left wing perspective. Can you write something? And they kind of gave me full creative freedom to write about whatever I wanted. So at first it was really cool that I got that opportunity, of course, but it was at first kind of like daunting of how in the world am I supposed to structure this? And so I wanted to kind of talk about kind of how I went about my framework. And so I was very heavily influenced by a thinker called Gill de Luz. He's a philosopher, post Marxist philosopher, from France, from the early ninety s, I think is when he died. But he wrote a book called Difference in Repetition, in which he kind of goes over what he calls his critique of representational thinking. So he's kind of like writing a book, a philosophical book about philosophy and how to think. And so in it he kind of talks about how generally people tend to take models of things that already exist, old things, and impose it onto the new as a way to kind of understand it. And so he argues that this is like a very limiting way of trying to understand something new because it makes you think that the new thing is kind of just like the old thing. It limits kind of the way that we think about it and kind of the way, or the example that I like to use to kind of explain his critique is through the drum machine. So the drum machine was a piece of technology that was created back in the day as a way to play music with your friends, in the potential possibility that your drummer wasn't able to come to band practice, right? So you would buy this piece of technology, you would set up the rhythm that you wanted to play and you would press play, and then you get to strum your guitar along with it. Within this conceptual model of what is the drum machine? We're kind of thinking of the drum machine as a representation of a drummer with a drum set, right? It's kind of like ideally you would want to have a drummer with a drum set, but you don't, so you buy the drum machine. So the drum machine is a representation. It's also a less good version than having a drummer with a drum set. Ideally, you want your drummer with his drum set to be there, so you can play music, but you don't. So you buy the machine. And so this is kind of like the way that people were thinking about it in the beginning. But then as time went on, people took the drum machine actually quite quickly, and they begin to play beats and rhythms that no drummer could ever play on his drum sets, right? It's just like humanly impossible. They turn the dial up to eleven and now these beats are going so fast no human could possibly play it. And thus creating new genres of music, new types of sound, even augmenting already existing genres of music. And so the drum machine, in one way, you can think of it as kind of breaking out of its representational model that was imposed on it. Or alternatively, you can think that the representational model of the drum set as a representation of a drummer with the drum machine as a representation of a drummer with the drum set was always incorrect that it was never the right way to think about the drum machine. The drum machine was its own thing that shouldn't necessarily be in this hierarchy against the drummer with the drum set. And so he describes this way of thinking as arboreal thinking or thinking like a tree in which you have the ideal form, which is like the Platonic ideal. This is our drummer with the drum set. This is what you ideally want to have. And then the branches being kind of the representations of it, the less good versions. This is super common frame of thinking in kind of like Western philosophy. So it's a very kind of stems from Plato. And he had this whole idea of the ideal forms and such. And so Deleuze is kind of rejecting this entire framework for how to think about things generally and kind of what he proposed. He was a very big fan of potatoes. He was really interested in them. And that's because the roots of potatoes were rhizomatic or they didn't have a clear center to them. There was no clear hierarchy of which potato was like the best potato in them. They just had roots that kind of like all jumbled up together and had no clear center to them. And so he kind of argues that we should be thinking rhizomatically rather than arborescently. And so for the book, I take this framework of this critique of representational thinking and I kind of realized that representational thinking is endemic in crypto, that it's all over the place, sort of since the beginning. We're kind of constantly putting using representational models to kind of understand what this new thing of crypto is in order to explain it to others, but also to explain it to ourselves. And so this starts I mean, from the beginning Bitcoin was thought of as a peer to peer cash system and then that narrative changed to be more like that. Bitcoin is a type of digital gold. So it kind of used this already existing kind of idea around money, ideally being something that is backed by gold as being an ideal form of money. And that was sort of imposed to Bitcoin as something that it ought to be. Additionally, you see this in DeFi decentralized finance, kind of like the creation of financial products, but on a decentralized medium. We have it in code is law, sort of equating code and law smart contracts, even though it has nothing to do with a legal system. I would argue this is the same. Representational thinking is everywhere in the network, states just the book. The title itself is very representational. Before they were called Dows, they were called DACs or Decentralized autonomous Corporations. So we see that oftentimes people use representational thinking coming from a very particular ideological mindset. This one being a very kind of libertarian one. The idea for a lot of people in the beginning of Crypto World was that we can use smart contracts to make the ultimate corporation in which no single person owns it and everything is sort of automated and hopefully I'll be the one who owns that corporation. I'll make a lot of money. Of course, Vitalik made the really good suggestion, I think, of substituting corporation with organization kind of implying that there's more that you can make with smart contracts than just a corporation, you're just a for profit entity. And I think at this point most people would agree that that was a good decision to make or a good suggestion. And so representational thinking is something that I would say is very common, especially from marketing, especially crypto marketers. When you're a marketer for something, especially something that's kind of complicated like crypto, you kind of want to explain it as fast as possible and you want to achieve your goals, right? You want to separate people from their money, right? Like that is the ultimate goal of marketing is you want to sell it in a way that other people are willing to give their money and they'll buy your tokens, they'll buy your product or whatever else. And so kind of what this is showing. I think what's happened in crypto, especially in the beginning, was that they were intentionally marketing towards a very particular, ideal kind of consumer in their head, which was a kind of like goldbug libertarian who was willing to spend money in order to reaffirm their ideological presuppositions about what they thought about the world and how ideally it ought to exist. And so this is, I would say, problematic because this type of representational thinking doesn't actually explain to people kind of like what it does or what it actually is for. It kind of restricts the way that people think about crypto and therefore it restricts the way that people build on these systems too because they're thinking about it in this ideological frame. And so the kind of aphorism or the couple of aphorisms that I really like, that I used, that also inspired kind of like the framework of the book was this one from Alfred Korsevsky in which he says the map is not the territory, the world is not the thing it describes. Whenever the map is confused with a territory, a semantic disturbance is set up in the organism. The disturbance continues until the limitation of the map is recognized. So what, to take an example, the map of Peru is different than actually existing Peru, right? We create maps of a territory but that map never kind of completely is able to express everything about that territory. We're always abstracting something away in order to create a map, in order to have a better understanding of a territory. But what we abstract away is something that is often a political decision or some sort of decision in order to say that these things you don't need to worry about because that's going to overcomplicate it. This is the way that I'm going to explain it to you because this is the way I want you to understand it. And so what I'm trying to do with the book is kind of like point out that the map that people currently use in order to understand crypto is not properly understanding the territory. And so I'm kind of saying that there is this disturbance and that we need to kind of recognize the limitations of the current map in which we're trying to understand crypto. The other aphorism that I really like is this one from George Box in which he says all models are wrong but some are useful. So by that I'm trying to say that metaphor isn't necessarily a bad thing, right? It's not that we can never use metaphor. Metaphors can be good and nice in order to help people begin to take the steps to kind of understand the thing that you're wanting to explain to them. But we have to be kind of careful about which models or maps we're trying to propose to people because some are more useful than others depending on what exactly it is they want it to be used for, right? And so with all of this, I think this is very closely related to the work of Antonio Gramsci who wrote a lot about cultural hegemony. He was a communist who was killed by the Mussolini regime during World War II and he kind of used this cultural hegemony as an idea to think about how the elite classes tend to impose on the lower classes or the working classes on what should be considered common sense. He's all about that. There are things that people think as common sense and oftentimes what is considered common sense is something that is imposed from the top. That the things that there is a very high desire for those at the top to want you to think that common sense is going to be the things that just so happen to be what benefits the ruling classes. That they want you to think that it is common sense. That you need to work for the company, you need to do this and that in order to have a good life. And I think this is kind of an extension of kind of what has happened in crypto that a lot of times people think is just common sense. We need to make a startup, we need to make a tech startup and that's going to be the way that we are going to change the world and we're going to do it with tokens. And there's this kind of like I think this is very heavily influenced by the influence of venture capital. And so in the book I kind of go through the three most common in a chronological order of representational models that people kind of think about crypto through. So the first one is crypto as money, the second is crypto as finance and the third is crypto as coordination. So this is kind of like chronologically the way that I've kind of seen and experienced how the crypto world and its narratives have evolved. It started off as like a thing about money, right? Bitcoin was peer to peer cash. Then it became about finance and the advent of smart contracts really pushed that and then it really became focused on more recently, I think in a certain niche of crypto on coordination and kind of using these tools to coordinate across time and space. And so when I'm kind of like thinking about these representational models that are common I kind of like to think of it kind of like this, like visually that we can see that crypto has each time kind of expanded the limits of its representational model but this is kind of overlaid on top of the actual territory. But I think it's important to note that kind of like all models are wrong but some are useful. And so whatever kind of representational model we're kind of choosing to try to understand this thing is never going to likely cover all of the territory in crypto, right? But it's important to kind of be aware of that and to know that we can't kind of just simply create the perfect metaphor or definition for all these things because likely they're going to be ways that over time it's going to expand out of that out of that representational model. And so it's kind of like something to critically think about when we're explaining these things to people and when we're also building applications on top of this because the models that we choose to kind of think about and how we're building these things can affect how we build it and what we prioritize for building. And so I think all this is really important because in the kind of larger scheme of things when we're talking about the Internet, as much as I have grown up with the Internet and I've loved it and it's brought me a lot of wonderful things. I think we need to keep in mind that the Internet is not forever and that it has changed quite a lot. And the way that we think about the internet changed quite a lot from when it was first introduced in the 80s or 90s or whatever up until now. The way that these different tech companies have kind of structured the Internet for us makes people think that the internet is a particular way or it is a particular thing. And this is heavily influenced by the kind of common thing of creating a startup in Silicon Valley or wherever else working in your garage. And then this kind of mythical story of a bunch of boys in the garage. Kind of creating then Google or whatever and thinking of this as the way also as well that we should do web three kind of organizations. And so what we've come to now at this point is sort of like well, now we have a few big tech giants in which we are kind of like their peasants in their kind of like their walled gardens. In which we are or not allowed to use their various features and platforms and we're kind of like restricted by what those platforms are able to or able not to do. And so a lot of people kind of think like oh, the Internet is Facebook, the internet is which to a large extent is kind of true, right? I think Facebook owns a very large percentage of overall internet traffic. And so I think it is this kind of like the way we think about these representational models then influence the way in which other people who use our products understand the internet. And so that needs to be made aware and try to kind of create. I think we're long overdue for very new ways to interact with the internet. I think that's what a lot of people are interested in Web Three for, because they're trying to find a lot of people say they want the Internet to be fun again. They want to re experience those things that they felt in the beginning of the Internet, where now we've kind of had this consolidation of power and wealth to where we just have a few tech companies that basically rule up most of it. And so I think as well, I just wanted to mention kind of how this relates especially to technical infrastructure and social relationships is that oftentimes we kind of think of technical and social relationships as separate. But I would argue that you can never kind of cleanly separate when we're talking about technical infrastructure versus we're talking about social relationships, you cannot separate them. They are intrinsically linked. No matter if you are a builder of a technical infrastructure, you are facilitating a particular social relationship through that technical infrastructure. Right? And the example that I like to give to kind of like explain this is the differences between a client server model versus a peer to peer model. These are just like kind of two broad basic kind of ways people will build technical infrastructure. The client server model is just kind of like the usual big tech, like the owner of the server, which is usually Facebook, Twitter, whoever else, wherever the company is, they have all of the data in their repository and you have the clients in which you make requests through your application. Clients in order to send a tweet, make a post, to read something, to like something. And you go through these kind of very quick checks within their servers to make sure you didn't post something that was whatever that is against their legal policies or something. Whereas a peer to peer model is something where if you are a part of the network, at least you are a participant in that network and that data is shared across many different computers and therefore you are asking each other for access for that data. And there is not necessarily a centralized entity that holds that. And I think this is something to keep in mind, is that this facilitates different social relationships and therefore different material outcomes. So we take a look at the music industry and the first creation of like a peer to peer file sharing service, Napster and such. Napster basically caused a huge drop in music revenue for the music industry. You can argue or not whether that was a good thing or a bad thing, whatever else, but at least we can say that materially, it caused something, right? It caused a real material change in the music industry. And you kind of see this if you look at Napster, how it looked like and then if you look at now today with things like Spotify, you can see that capitalism has kind of responded to this need to make sure that they're still able to make profits in the music industry. And they've done this through music streaming in which they've now kind of cheapened basically the work of artists and musicians and such which they get paid very, very little per stream. But this is kind of like the material outcome of what has caused this kind of like shift to peer to peer networks or the introduction of peer to peer networks for file sharing. And then additionally when we're talking about, specifically about social relationships, I like to kind of compare and contrast things like traditional corporations or tech startups which really ultimately want to become traditional corporations. Oftentimes they want to become the new Googles or the new Facebooks or whatever else. If you look at how they're organized, they're organized like a pyramid generally right at the top you have the shareholders who own the company and then you have the stratification of people with less and less power as you go down. And generally there's more of the people at the bottom and they have kind of less of a say in what happens in the corporation. This is compared to something like a worker cooperative in which you as a worker are also an owner in that endeavor, in that business and you are able to kind of put your interests both as an owner and as a worker as core to how the organization is run. And this causes serious material effects. If we look at wage inequality in traditional companies versus cooperatives, there's a huge difference, right? Cooperatives, they generally have to take the biggest, the example, the biggest cooperative mondogan in Spain. They have a six to one or a nine to one CEO to line worker ratio as far as their income. Whereas the EU average is 129 to one and the US average is 339 to one. So you can see that the structure of the social organization has very serious material effects on the way in which people who are inside of this hierarchy are able to express their own power and able to kind of whether or not they have unequal or not wages. And then to kind of think about this through the comparison of Web Two versus Web Three, we can see that having a separation with your identity and the application is a very different social relationship to the application or the company that is running that application. Right. You no longer have to create a profile specific to that platform, to that corporation, and instead you have much more say in how you handle those things. You have more kind of control over your funds and whatnot you don't have to buy kind of basically Chuck E. Cheese tokens within different platforms. You instead have kind of more autonomy in how you're able to manage those things. It puts a little bit more onus on the individual in a lot of ways. But I think the cool things that I think that's happening right now with account abstraction maybe help with kind of like some of those UX things. And so we see as well in the Web Three space that there is kind of like this proto cooperative behavior where some different applications have done similar things to what cooperatives have already been doing for hundreds of years. We see like uniswap with their AirDrop, which is I think, one of the first airdrops to happen in the DeFi ecosystem. This is very similar to how consumer cooperatives work, where the more you kind of use the cooperative infrastructure, the more profit sharing you'll be given at the end of the year. For example, you see this with Safe in which they've made it easy to create kind of joint bank accounts, kind of like a collective endeavor with sharing real resources with your friends or with fellow organizers. And you see this in kind of more fun things with party dow, party bid, in which you can have collective ownership of NFTs. But so if there's kind of like one thing like a North Star for people in crypto that I think they should take away is this is to simply build collectively owned digital infrastructure. The current digital infrastructure in which we are kind of reliant on is one that is very centrally owned by simply a few actors who own a lot of capital, who own a lot of money, and therefore a lot of power over how we are able to interact with one another through this digital infrastructure. Right? I think there's a reason why people aren't enjoying the Internet as much as maybe they did before, because a lot of the technical infrastructure is facilitating particular social interactions that benefit the corporation to make more money off of your interactions on social media, to take one example. And so I think if, as users, workers, however you want to see it, we're able to control or have some ownership over how these platforms are used and how they use our data and what kind of behaviors it wants to facilitate, relationships it wants to facilitate, then I'm pretty sure most people would pick something different than what we have now. And so, yeah, I got a couple of nice quotes from different people for the book, including Vitalik, the founder of Ethereum, Nick Cernick, Primavera de Filippi, Nathan Schneider and a few others, murtaki just to show off and name drop. And then in case you're still unsure about the book, there was a review posted in CoinDesk called Crypto and the Real Meaning of Radicalism, which David Morris gave a review of the book if you want to read that. And yeah, then this is a QR code that hopefully still works to a link tree with some places you can get the book if you haven't already. So there we go. Excellent q and A.
[ 0:28:58.000 ---> 0:29:34.000 ] Speaker A : Perfect, perfect. Yeah. So, yeah, let's open up for some Q A. Usually what we like to do too is have sort of like a roundtable discussion as well with the rest of the audience. So, yeah, let's just kind of kick it off. So I guess I'll go ahead and ask the first question. So you mentioned previous representation models being leveraged in crypto currently blockchain currently. So what sort of representation models do you think you would suggest? I know you kind of talked a bit about cooperatives and things like that, so I don't know, curious to see what you have to say about that.
[ 0:29:35.000 ---> 0:33:31.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I definitely still hold kind of like all models are wrong, some are useful. So it depends on kind of the context that you are in that you think might be kind of the most useful in that particular time. I definitely am a big fan of cooperatives and I think that's kind of like as far as low hanging fruits or a place in which you want to kind of learn a lot from. I think the cooperative space is one where you can learn a lot from. I think what is kind of, like, interesting to see over time is kind of people starting a lot of people who started off in dows and trying to think of, like, oh, now we don't have to be beholden to these giant corporates we can create our own organizations, our own businesses, which are democratically run. DA DA DA they begin to describe things that are similar to a lot of cooperatives. And many of those people have come to cooperatives as a place to learn from, which I think is very interesting. I think it's kind of like this kind of like a realization of just like, oh, there was this already existing space that was kind of thinking about the same questions, but they simply weren't aware of it because it's not something that I don't think most business schools are like, you. Don't learn in school what a cooperative is. And that's another thing, cultural hegemony. But yeah, I think that's like one model, I think, to go to look at. I try to think of things in a smaller way rather than trying to say crypto is a thing and try to make these direct metaphors because I find them always very lacking and not explaining very much and oftentimes kind of obscuring more than it helps. I try to think of things as like, well, what it is that we want to do, what are some things that are out there that exist that maybe have similar outcomes? Maybe we can think about that and apply that to see how that may work through this decentralized infrastructure in which there are different technical affordances. And so, of course, it's not going to map one to one, but I think understanding where you can learn from that is really interesting. So, I mean, labor unions, of course, I think are really interesting places to look for inspiration. I think social wealth funds are really interesting. Community currencies and local currencies. There's like this whole plethora of different work by a lot of people since, I don't know, several decades on alternative currency type of stuff that I think is often overlooked. But yeah, there's a lot and maybe another one to mention is kind of like looking into credit clearing and things like this. Some of these credit clearing is a really interesting one to me because it's like banks already do credit clearing with each other and that's how they save on having not needing the full amount of capital that you would need to make sure that each transaction at a bank happens by itself. They just have all the transactions at once over the day, for example, and then they clear it there so you'd have less of a need for capital. So I think think about that model and like but applying that at a much smaller scale or at like at the individual level or like, the small business level, which has been done before. But I think crypto hasn't really looked into it too much. There is like a growing group of people who kind of use the meme collaborative finance to kind of explore this. But yeah, these are things that I've kind of spoken about on the podcast before. But yeah.
[ 0:33:35.000 ---> 0:33:38.000 ] Speaker A : Go ahead, Bob. Yes, we can.
[ 0:33:38.000 ---> 0:33:38.000 ] Speaker B : Yes.
[ 0:33:38.000 ---> 0:33:55.000 ] Speaker C : Okay, joshua, I'm really happy that you have written this book and have written all this stuff. And I do definitely want to read the book. And so I have. It is has, are you familiar with the term social provisioning?
[ 0:33:58.000 ---> 0:34:00.000 ] Speaker B : I don't think so. You can explain.
[ 0:34:00.000 ---> 0:34:01.000 ] Speaker A : It.
[ 0:34:06.000 ---> 0:34:49.000 ] Speaker C : Means it means a socialist organization provisioning the requirements of life for all of its citizens, provisioning food, housing, health care, whatever energy, whatever else they need. And also, we would hope now do it in such a way as to not kill the environment. Has anybody in the people who are talking about with crypto radicals thinking on that level.
[ 0:34:51.000 ---> 0:36:21.000 ] Speaker B : Not like as far as using that term I would say, but it is a good term that I think that kind of succinctly kind of describes a lot of things that I think people would be interested in. I think there is generally, of course, people kind of lean on kind of like market oriented thinking about provisioning. And that's something that I think now with kind of like this big bear market, I think I find that a lot of people are kind of questioning are kind of like thinking that something needs to change if Crypto is to kind of survive or become what it's promised it would become. But yeah, I think that happens at a very small level. I think whenever you are in a multi signature wallet or a certain type of dow in which there's high trust I think that ends up happening in a very small way but I think it would be like I'm interested in trying to find more mechanisms for social provisioning rather than kind of like market based provisioning. I assume that's kind of like the different things.
[ 0:36:23.000 ---> 0:36:59.000 ] Speaker D : That gets me thinking on a distinction that I originally found in a book by Barufakis, but it was like, the difference in between market value and usage value. And talking about poetry that would have close to zero market value, but people can still have a deeply meaningful experience. Or with an example of, like, if I ask you for a favor to help me, I don't know, move some boxes, and it's really meaningful to me, et cetera. You might do it, but if I try to pay you for it, you'll be like, no, dude, I'm busy.
[ 0:37:01.000 ---> 0:39:07.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, sure, I'm definitely someone who doesn't. I don't like my friends paying me if they ask me to help them with something. I would rather just hang out. If you ask me to move, just give me some beers and let's hang out afterwards or something. Than trying to come up with the market rates is not how I think most people kind of interact with their friends. But, yeah, I think he's getting at kind of like the traditional Marxist term of use value versus exchange value, that when you have a commodity, you have a thing. Most of the time you can use it for something so it has a use value to it but you can also exchange it for something else. You can sell it on the market for some sort of exchange and that oftentimes these two use value and exchange value aren't always closely linked that something can have a lot more use than it is exchangeable or much more exchangeable than it does have use. I think definitely crypto world has this kind of fetishization of exchange value of like I'm getting something because I can then exchange it for something more, right? And this is like the effects of capital, like capital as a relation in which you're always trying to make a profit off of some investments that you've made, so you're always focusing on exchange value. And this is not a problem just in crypto. This is a problem in the larger economy, of course. And this kind of fetishization of exchange value has therefore kind of like it means that people cannot use the thing that they want to use because they cannot exchange it, the prices become too high or all these other issues. I think there's this kind of like verifakus is saying probably that we need to be focusing more on the use value of things and the exchange value of things.
[ 0:39:10.000 ---> 0:40:08.000 ] Speaker D : Which seems a super complicated problem when even participation or engagement, et cetera, as we go into reputation systems, the quantification of everything advances. But I wonder if there comes a tipping point where everything is so financialized that it's completely unescapable and you just kind of give up on trying to track it. But I don't know if you're familiar with augmented bonding curves, but for me were a fascinating idea sometime back thinking. It's like, okay, yeah, it can be financialized, but you can still sort of stabilize it a little bit, protect it from wild speculation, which there was the whole idea that, yes, cryptocurrencies, as this market grows, the swings are going to become less big, and that hasn't really happened. We're still seeing like 80, 90% swings or more in so many currencies, et cetera, in so many protocols. Then it becomes unusable.
[ 0:40:08.000 ---> 0:42:19.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I talk about augmented bonding curves in the second section. I'm good friends with jeff emmett who's done a lot of work on that. But, yeah, I think there's a fantasy a bit that markets become more efficient over time that I think just hasn't proved right in crypto so much that the belief that eventually the price will kind of stabilize at a certain point. But the thing is, the way it's designed at the moment, the way it's kind of like working, is that a lot of people make a lot of money off of the volatility of these tokens and token prices. And so there is no incentive if you are someone who's already made so much money and you have so many tokens and that you are in crypto, we call them whales. If you're a whale, you're able to manipulate markets like crazy. You can buy and sell just several percentages of the entire total market cap of a cryptocurrency, and therefore you know that the price is going to drop and therefore you can set up your bets in other places to make sure that you will profit in the end. But, yeah, I think augmented bonding curves are interesting, and I wish they were used more. I think they're like an interesting thing for public goods funding. An augmented bonding curve is kind of like a bonding curve in which you pay a little bit of taxes on it's. Kind of like a little decentralized community tax or something like that. But it helps fund the community itself so that even if you are someone who, I don't know, you try to speculate on the token that there is some amount of tax being paid. It's kind of like the answer to trying to fund communities and things that are not profitable directly by having this little tax, I guess. But a lot of space to kind of like play around with design.
[ 0:42:23.000 ---> 0:42:30.000 ] Speaker A : So it looks like Bob has another question. Oh, you're muted Bob.
[ 0:42:33.000 ---> 0:43:49.000 ] Speaker C : Yes. Okay, so I'll figure out lower my hand. Okay. No, it doesn't do that. We can hear you now anyway. So I have one more question that's sort of like have you considered alternative mechanisms for coordination? Because I like that you had that layers where the coordination is the highest level there. Have you considered other actual so it's like blockchains are not actually peer to peer. There's this blockchain in the middle and everybody has to go through the same blockchain or a digital representative of it. And so there are other actual peer to peer coordination protocols that are being experimented with and it might be interesting to think about those too.
[ 0:43:55.000 ---> 0:45:35.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I would say that blockchains are peer to peer at the node level. If you have a node then you are part of the peer to peer network. But the way that most people interact with the blockchain is as a user in which you are going through someone else's node in order to use the network. I have issues with that a little bit. Most people who use peer to peer file sharing services don't run a node on that file sharing service. So then there's certain levels in which you can interact with the peer to peer system and then so it's also a question of how easy is it for an average person to take part in the same level of hierarchy of the peer to peer nodes or servers. There is of course I did write a bit about Holochain in the book. Holochain takes like a different approach in which they're not a blockchain, they use a distributed hash table in which each user has their own chain and they don't. So by not having global consensus, instead only having local consensus amongst users of a different application, they're making it easier for the average user to be at the same level in the hierarchy as part of the peer to peer network. I wrote a little bit about it.
[ 0:45:36.000 ---> 0:45:50.000 ] Speaker C : Very local consensus is also a lot faster. What is the decision time in most of the cryptocurrency blockchains that you're using now?
[ 0:45:51.000 ---> 0:46:49.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I mean like the block time I think on Ethereum I think it's like 15 seconds, something like that, I want to say. But yeah, generally they are quite slow. I think it is about a bit as well. I'm still back and forth. I don't know. Holochain is a really interesting technology theoretically and conceptually, but they're still not in production yet. They're not at the level of blockchain that already existing blockchains are at. So I'm kind of waiting to see how it can handle basically a user, like a real big production use case because some people have doubts that their security model is safe enough for a production application, that whatever a blockchain does, we'll see.
[ 0:46:49.000 ---> 0:47:29.000 ] Speaker C : We're going to be trying it fairly soon, as soon as some of the glitches get worked out. There's another technology that's in work that Christine Weber is putting together in the that's I don't want to try to even give it a description right now, but she and other people are working on another thing that has some history behind it, that has some proof behind it.
[ 0:47:31.000 ---> 0:47:32.000 ] Speaker B : Cool. Yeah.
[ 0:47:34.000 ---> 0:47:36.000 ] Speaker A : So it looks like Artem has a question.
[ 0:47:41.000 ---> 0:48:16.000 ] Speaker E : Hi, guys. Joshua, thank you for the presentation. I just wanted to ask you maybe it's a bit off topic, I'm not sure, but I think you worked with Primavera on the concept of coordinations and I'm really interested in that. I don't know much about it, to be honest. I know it's like an alternative to network stage and I'm just curious if you could talk about coordinations a little bit and maybe yeah, I don't know if it's relevant or not for this talk, but you can comment on that as well.
[ 0:48:17.000 ---> 0:54:28.000 ] Speaker B : Sure, I can relate it a bit. So the kind of whole endeavor that started with creating coordinations started from basically us being frustrated with the network states and how Belaji was kind of presenting a lot of the problems that he presents in the book and how crypto or blockchains kind of may influence that problem or change it or whatever else. And thinking that he's not doing it justice and he's not going to do it justice, but he's going to have a lot of influence and people are going to be like, wow, he's so smart. It's amazing because maybe they haven't dug as deeply into these kinds of issues ahead of he started his own network state podcast. We started the podcast to kind of get ahead of him on our criticisms about the book because we had quite a lot, but we didn't want it to be kind of purely a criticism. I think criticism is good, but you can only go so far if you go up to someone and they're like a huge network state fan and you're like, oh, network states are bad because XYZ, then they're going to be like, okay, what's your alternative? And so this is kind of like our attempt at trying to then it kind of pushed us to make this alternative, to rethink how these different things are affected by blockchain and crypto. The idea of sovereignty, the idea of what state is and is not able to do, or what a blockchain can emulate or simulate as part of a nation state but also questioning whether or not we should be thinking of this through a nation state. So with Bellagy's network state I would compare what a network state is, is basically Silicon Valley tech venture capitalist way of creating a business and then scaling it but applying that in the model of state. So he basically is essentially advocating for a kind of combination of estate that is essentially privately owned in many ways. Although he doesn't say it explicitly, it's implied throughout the book. And he kind of thinks of communities of kinship or people who have kinship with one another as being a very singular thing, as more like a consumer brand obsession type of thing. So the examples of people who would want to join a network stake include people who don't like the FDA or people who eat keto or like vegans as being a reason for why people would congregate, buy land and then create their own state. So we found that to be a little bit silly. And so our thing is that we want to be also more true to kind of like the crypto ethos. Our thinking is that weren't we supposed to be doing this stuff without the state, not against the state or something? So it's a bit strange to see this kind of like libertarian guy go into that. And so for us a coordination is similarly finding people you have kinship with. So not necessarily people that you have the exact same interests and think you need to make a state around that but that you have relationships with in which you have solidarity for those people in that group. So you are willing to kind of make sure that other people in the group are taken care of and then also kind of like use decentralized technologies to kind of like augment how people relate with one another and how these groups are able to coordinate across time and space. So the idea is less about how do we create a new state for our utopia and is more about thinking like people generally think of society or the economy or whatever else as separated into two sectors, right? You have the public sector on one side and a private sector on the other and depending on your politics you'll choose either one or the other and one means you're more right and the other one means you're more left. And we're saying that actually there is more than just these two sectors in society. There is this third sector what we call civil society or types of organizations that are not sort of meant to be pursuing profit. So not like a corporation and also not within the logic of a state. And so there are plenty of these types of organizations labor unions, council, those churches, cooperatives, like community gardens, like all these types of things. And our idea is that we need to kind of or the commons. Yes. And the idea is that we want to kind of like since we've had these 50 years of neoliberalism in which this sector has increasingly or has decreased in size over time as people have to spend more time going to work and they have less time to do other things, this has gotten smaller. And so we want to kind of reinforce this sector of society. We think this is kind of like the place where crypto can really shine and this means basically having these thinking of crypto as also a scaffolding for the creation of institutions that people then can kind of use as part of their own infrastructure rather than having to rely on a corporation or a state for everything. So that's kind of like I have like 10 hours at least of podcasts talking about this idea. But there's also some writing on Medium that a couple of people in Blockchain have done as well that maybe I can share if you're interested.
[ 0:54:32.000 ---> 0:55:13.000 ] Speaker A : I guess I had one final question. So something that you've mentioned is critiquing network states is like the opt out approach. So I know you mentioned augmented bonding curves and stuff like the idea like burning or rage quitting. So are these what's called cooperatives I'm sorry, coordinations? Maybe you could talk about where you see kind of the balance of an opt out approach and kind of like a community stewardship approach. I'm just kind of curious because I know that was kind of something that initially interested me of Critiquing that opt out of society approach.
[ 0:55:16.000 ---> 0:55:24.000 ] Speaker B : You mean because Bellagi, he's really into exits, the idea of exit as being kind of like the ultimate yeah, exactly.
[ 0:55:24.000 ---> 0:55:47.000 ] Speaker A : But you also mentioned like augmented bonding curves and I know an aspect of a bonding curve is you burn and you could take your position, leave an organization. It's kind of parallel to things in other dow space like rage quitting and things like that. So I'm just kind of curious to see how you kind of balance those two things. That makes sense.
[ 0:55:48.000 ---> 0:58:45.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. I'd say that in an augmented bonding curve, you're not exiting with everything that you came in with necessarily because you have to pay this tax and that's meant to be as a way to keep people in the group. But I would say that if it is very easy for you to leave a group or to leave a community and there is no repercussions for doing so for you or anybody else, that means that the group that you are in was not a community in the first place. Right. It should be difficult to leave a community as in it should be that you are interdependent with other people in this group. That's how you know you're part of a community. This doesn't mean that you should stay inside of the cult if you're not enjoying the organization or the group, but that there are sacrifices that have to be recognized if you are entering or leaving a group. So this idea is a bit of a fantasy that you can exit anything you want at any time and there will be no repercussions because that's simply not how the world works. And so I think for us, of course, there should be the option to exit. There should be the choice to exit, of course. But it's probably likely that you're not going to exit something if you have a lot of voice in it. If you feel that your rights are being recognized and that your opinion is being heard, then you will probably not exit. And you will instead choose to take part in the organization, even if it's not perfect and up to everything that you want it to be. Because there is no such thing as the perfect organization that's going to solve everyone's problems and everyone's needs. These are very complex problems and all you can do, rather than trying to give a simple solution is to instead kind of manage the contradictions that are inside of group dynamics inherently. And so for us, it's more that it's complete idealism to think that you can exit freely at any moment a group or organization and there not be any consequences and that we're just kind of like looking at things as how the world is. I would say. I think you mentioned community stewardship. I think that's just kind of getting at this idea of how do you have a voice within these types of groups and organizations and how are you able to express that voice in a way that you feel is appropriate.
[ 0:58:47.000 ---> 0:58:58.000 ] Speaker A : Got you. Very interesting call, guys. Seems like we are out of time actually over time, but yeah, once again, really appreciate your time. Joshua.
