[ 0:00:07.000 ---> 0:01:08.000 ] Speaker A : Without further ado, welcome everyone. I'm Daniel Ospina, I'm an instigator at Rndao. We are a research and development decentralized, autonomous organization. So we are basically exploring the future of work with a mission to empower humane collaboration. And today probably doesn't need much of a presentation or an introduction, but I'm super excited to welcome Dave Snowden with us, who's, at least in my opinion, and probably in many others as well, leading authority in the field of systems thinking, collective sense making and so on. Dave is the founder of the Chief Scientific Officer at the Kinafinco, has led a number of different initiatives in this regard, published books, done many different things. So with that, Dave, it's really a pleasure to have you. Thank you very much for joining us. The floor is yours.
[ 0:01:09.000 ---> 0:38:18.000 ] Speaker B : OK, so at any stage during this, feel free to interrupt, put something in the comment sign, I'm quite happy to change the agenda or move things around. That really isn't a problem. Natty, you've now met, actually holds the hold of the company together, so she's another source you can go to if you want to ping her. So, first of all, just to qualify something up front, I don't think I'm a leading authority in systems thinking, I'm a leading critical systems thinking, which is slightly different in that I think most of the stuff around systems dynamics and cybernetics really has very little utility these days. I can see value in soft systems and some aspects of it, but I think otherwise we've generally moved on, which is not to disrespect the value at the time it was very progressive when it came out, but we kind of like now got science. And the way I've explained this to Gerald and others at times is we always used to build canals and we understood gravity, but then Newton came along and we had the science of something and we could then do things differently. So complexity is a science, it's not a way of thinking, it's actually a science science. And that's important to understand and a couple of distinctions to make them upfront. I don't think with any exception, most people define in the systems thinking movement, define systems as having boundaries and being based on human perception of the nature. If you come from a complexity boundary, complexity backgrounds, not all systems have boundaries. It's not a definition of a system. And systems actually have a nature which exists independently of human perception. Doesn't mean that human perception can't change how we see things. But systems exist. If anybody wants to get on the philosophy of this, then read up on neomaterialism and realism and those sort of areas. So this is taking a much more that's a sort of theoretical background to this, but today is to focus really on design thinking, or rather design methodology, design approaches. And I should probably tell the story of the first time I encountered design thinking. It's very early days when it had just got started and they were still building peer offices in San Francisco for a day and stuff like that. And myself and John Celia Brown and a couple of other people got invited to be part of a design thinking seminar for Microsoft to design the future of some of their services. So it's not often I get to be a participant in a workshop. It's even rarer I get invited back afterwards because I tend not to be that compliant. And John Seeley Brown is roughly similar. So you've got two sort know, old white males who don't take fools gladly in your audience. It's going to be problematic and either way so we have this brainstorming session and every table that's got in a dayo, facilitator scribe sitting on it taking notes. And so I got up at one point to go to Lou and came back and looked over the scribe's shoulder thinking I'd see some representation of what we said. And I basically looked at it and said, look, that isn't what we said, it's completely different. And the guy was fairly young and naive and he said no, but it was what you really intended to say. I'm helping explain the process. That's not something you should do with people like me. So either way an argument ensued. Heavierweight Facilitators got involved, including one of the founder directors of Adeo. Eventually we got a different scribe and we were allowed to control what they put out, but it was obviously they were upset. And when I looked at the flip chart, he actually had little paper plate, pencil notes on the chart of what he expected to find. So it was almost like he was filling in the blanks whatever content we had. And at the end of the day I said, okay, so this is great. We've done all the identification of issues and problems of moving to ideation. I've made sure our table have kept their ideas separate because I know the process works. So we got all these ideas, who do we share them with? And they said, no, the creative team now goes away and has the ideas and we'll present the results to you in the morning. So as I say, life got interest and I didn't get invited back and that's a story for another day. But my problem with that, and I'm going to illustrate the issue, is it was a very controlled environment, so it was a linear concept. The concept was, we will facilitate you to discover what you need, then we, the experts will decide what the right solution is for you. And boy, will you love it when we present it to you tomorrow. Tomorrow. And I actually think that approach does work in some constrained circumstances. So if you're dealing with product development, which is where Odea really got their traction, and they have their track record and their successes, kind of know, talking with people, interviewing people, observing them, getting their needs, and then getting people who understand the technology to design solutions that they wouldn't have thought of, that makes a lot of sense. So I'll say up front I can see a role for the double diamond, the ideation design print a linear approach where you've got effectively a defined field of study and you've got a defined set of expertise which could produce material for that. But that's kind of like limited design for me is much broader than that and I'll talk in a minute about the really new work we're doing. And how do you design a system so that things you don't know yet you want, but you will know after you've seen them, can emerge more naturally? You may have to think about that for a second but just hold that one in mind. Now some of the reasons for this is coming back onto the basic science. So complex adaptive systems don't have causality. If you treat them as if they've got causality, you over constrain them and therefore you don't get emergency, you don't get novelty. The only thing you know with absolute certainty about a complex adaptive system is any intervention will have unintended consequences and unintended consequences if you spot them early may be beneficial, not negative. If you notice the role of side effects or monitoring anomalies famous give you a couple of examples. So a drug once developed called Thalidomide was designed for pain relief. It had one really negative side effect in badly deformed children but it had a really positive side effect and it created the first ever cure for leprosy and it was because somebody saw an anomaly, they saw the thing go sideways. You see the same in aspirin then there's the famous case of please don't spotlight me, I like to see people. Then you see the famous case of a rather conversation in a conference in Canada about a rather embarrassing side effect and a cardiac drug which ended up with Viagra. So if you look at it there's a whole history of accidental encounters of suddenly seeing that something is significant and that really can't come out of a linear process. A linear process will produce what you expect to see. And the thing you've all heard me say 100 times, but it's a good norm. In one is the radiologists ask to look for anomalies who do not see a picture of a gorilla despite the fact it's 48 times the size of a cancer nodule and other eyes physically scan it and the 17% who do see it come to believe they were wrong when they talk with the 83% who didn't. So one critical feature of design is to find the 17% who either seen the world differently or know a different solution. And that's a kind of like complexity cognitive aspect on it. So that means we want to expand things a bit. So the first thing we do and I'll go through three processes there and give some more background is to focus on distributed ethnography rather than expert discovery, if you want. You can imagine if you want at the moment a two x two matrix. So basically the vertical dimension is discovery, the horizontal dimension is ideation. Bottom left on both is expert and top and far right is Distributed, if you can imagine that as a matrix. All right, so basically Adeo and things like, will that work in expert to expert, expert, expert discovery, expert ideation, or expert mediated discovery. So the first thing we want to do is distributed Ethnography, which is mass discovery of issues or problems. Now, one of the ways you do that is basically what we call unarticulated need mapping. Something which is actually really important in software design, by the way, because if you can use existing technology capability to map unarticulated needs, you start to become strategic. And you're not just responding to user questions, you're coming back with things which may change the way your organization works. And it really needs to start to think about ways it can be a strategic asset, not a manufacturing process. So you actually have the networks, you have the capability, you have the reach, you have the tools. So one of the things we do, for example, with the Gemba version of Sensemaker is continuous micro capture of data. So when people are frustrated by something, they have an idea, they hear an idea from somebody over a bar that night at something their companies they're doing, they get really frustrated and say, there must be a better way of doing this. You capture that material as it happens in narrative form. And the big thing we develop, which I can talk about later if people want, is called high abstraction signification. So you get people to interpret their experiences in non gameable ways. Now, increasingly these days we're also using semiotics or signs, not just language, because you want to move up a level of abstraction. And abstraction is really key to innovation. It's one of the reasons art evolves in human beings. I mean, one of my greatest ideas on Knevin came when I was looking at Caravaggio's Seven Mercies. So one of the things art does is it takes you into a different place, so you see things differently. And that's actually really important in human evolution, abstractions are key. So using abstract signifiers, we can then look for statistical patterns in those day to day experiences and we could present those day to day experiences to a designer and say, can you do something for this? That's not story points for the It people. It's a cluster of real user experiences. So if you're continuously gathering those and you can actually have a budget which says the minute we get a statistical significance of 7.8 or above within these factors, you're allowed to spend x amount of money on building A. Prototype that's actually a really simple heuristic, but that starts to create this generative ecosystem of people with technical knowledge interacting with people with problems. And if you think about it, the great skill of Apple over the years is to develop things we didn't know we wanted until we had them, then we couldn't do without. And that doesn't happen out of a linear process. It happens about thinking differently. So step number one is distributed ideation. Sorry, distributed discovery. And that's best done. You can do it with pulses, but it's best done by continuous gemba, narrative journaling and capture. And by the way, that's also really important when you're in the development sector and you're designing interventions. You want the day to day experiences of the people you're trying to help and you want them to interpret those experiences. You don't want them interpreted by an algorithm or by an expert because you want to see how they perceive the world. So step number one, distributed discovery or distributed ethnography? Step number two is distributed ideation. So that's where I've got a known problem, but I'm not sure what the solutions are. And there may be many solutions out there and some people may have solutions I'm not aware of. I just republished a 30 year old framework about known, unknown and unknowables which has attracted some interest, including one I'm trying to deal with offline right? But if you look at that, it basically says the two main danger areas are actually the unknown unknowables. And unknowables is key because you can't know them until you encounter them. But the real danger is the unknown knowns, the things your organization knows, but the decision makers are unaware of. And actually, some of the ways that organizations know things is in evolutionary processes. Now, I was on an NHS panel earlier on today and they asked what the most effective way you could intervene? And I said, well, the most effective way you could improve the training and take on of nurses is to bring back the nurses hostels. And nobody was really expecting that, but every nurse just cheered me. Because the reality is the nurses hostels were part of the extended education. They created resilience support. People talked with each other and the consultants were just trying to engineer it out and they saw it as a cost for accommodation. And so why do we have that? And I said, if you actually brought people back into nurses hospitals and replace bursaries with free accommodation, you'd have a much more effective system and a resilient system which create dependency. So unknown knowns are actually a major opportunity in companies. Major, major opportunities. And the trouble with the last 30 or 40 years of systems thinking, which has been primarily manifested with Lean and Six Sigma, or as Gary calls it, Six Sigma, right, is basically the elimination of anything where the purpose is not explicit. Now, the reality is human systems work in very different ways from that. So those unknown practices, et cetera, are actually really important. So that gives me two extensions and the third extension is where I start to put them together. And this is called acceptive design. So that's where I start to match existing capabilities against unarticulated needs at scale, but in ways that I can't expect. So this is coming back to the acceptation point in biology. So under conditions of stress, a trait which evolves for one function will accept for something else. And the example people gave in the Chat line earlier of microwave ovens, that was when a raytheon engineer realized the significance of a chopper bar melting in his pocket when he was maintaining the magneto of a radar machine. So he put a metal box around the magneto. We got microwave ovens now. The trouble is that's chance discovery and chance discovery isn't good enough. We want to scale. And by the way, on climate change, this is a really important thing I'm going to talk about now. We haven't got the time to invent things from scratch. We got to find ways to radically repurpose existing capability for actually scarily unknowable needs in terms of the way they work. So this is a key part of that sort of process. So the famous case on this, which some of you heard about was the first one I was involved in was we had a lighting company who fundamentally believed that there was a market for lights as a garden feature. All right? But up to that time, people used lights to light their garden. They didn't see lights as a feature like rocks or plants or anything else. If you go to the annual Chelsea Flower For in London, which is my annual purgatory, I go for marital relationships. But I've discovered if I go as an anthropologist and take pictures of the people, I can find it fascinating because the people are really interested, even if the plants aren't. You'll now actually find that lights are actually a key part of most garden design, but at this time they weren't. So for that we pulled in 3000 stories from people about their gardens and gardens they liked gardens they thought were desirable. We didn't ask them about light. We hid questions of light and shade and transparency in the way that they interpreted their story. So we're not going to suggest something because that would bias it. We're going to see if it comes out when it's given us an available interpretation along with other factors, because that gives us more significance. So we got those stories. Then we used a polymorphic set of triangles. This was all done on six triangles. We then the same concept but different language that's in the parts polymorphism. All right? So each triangle represented the same concept. The labels were the same characteristics. But we changed the labels from stories about people's guards to the technology. And we got every engineer to identify all of their core technologies, create a link to the engineering plan or the Wiki or whatever and index. It took them about two days working part time. And then we matched the databases together at an abstraction level, not at a concrete level. This is reflecting the way human beings innovate. And we had five clusters. Two of them actually became quite significant. They became businesses. One of which I'm actually fundamentally ashamed of, not because it wasn't good business, but what had produced is truly appalling. So it's a plastic rock which changes garish colors based on water flow and human warmth. Proximity, right. I mean, how anybody can buy this, I don't know, but it's selling really well in Southeast Asia. It's entirely built on a technology originally designed to handle urine saturated staircases in football stadium. And nobody would have made that connection if we hadn't gone up to the level of abstraction and connected. So we're looking at that now, and what's called exactive incubators in the university, by which business define their problems, the university define their capabilities. Then we mash them together at an abstract level and say, maybe you guys should talk with each other. Because the trouble is people in universities have already decided what their technology is for and people are overstructured. So the abstraction is key. This actually used to be one of my roles in IBM. I just spent weeks walking around the labs in the States and then weeks talking around the progressive business units and just creating marriages and putting things together. And I never, ever took a technology and used it for what they designed it for. I used it for something else because I could feed it up and trying to stop it being dependent on people spotting it. And this is kind of like manage what's called managed serendipity. So that fills out the three extra boxes of my matrix. And it basically doesn't say there's anything wrong with double diamond. It just say it works in some contexts, but it doesn't work in other contexts and it doesn't work for genuine innovation. Which leads me on to a second complaint about this. A lot of people run creativity programs in the hope that they will create innovation. This is one of the fundamental errors you see in the systems thinking period. They observe a phenomena associated with a phenomena they want, and they think the one causes the other. The reality is the context has created both. Innovation comes out of starvation pressure and perspective shift, and that also makes you creative. Both the innovation and the behavior are emergent properties of context. One doesn't cause the other. And by the way, most leadership theory makes this error as well, yet it assumes an observed behavior has causal capability, when actually the behavior itself has emerged as a result of the circumstances which produce the phenomenon you're trying to copy anyway. It's kind of like a 101 logic error, to be honest. But it's so endemic, you have to point it out. So I'll just hold that. Because if you want to innovate and this is really well established, right, what you actually need to do is to actually put people in a position where they don't have a lot of resources and they have pressure of time, and then they will innovate. They'll get very, very creative. But taking them into a room with colored chairs and childhood toys to get them to play, to become creative, will piss off anybody who's really got any ideas and won't work anyway. So kind of like it's a waste of time. I just put that one as a middle point hold. Other three were starvation, pressure and perspective shift, the ability to see things from a different perspective. All of them are necessary, none of them are sufficient, I would say. I wouldn't make that an absolute statement. But as a general rule, you need all three present for innovation to form. Now, there are other ways we work on this. So, for example, one of the things we've done recently is we've actually developed, and this was the process which we used to create the matrix I just talked about, and the other stuff I'm going to talk about. We worked for three years using the Triopticon method, which I've given you a link to a simulation on there. The Triopticon was me saying, if we want to innovate. If you actually look at the medieval craft halls, innovation generally didn't happen with master craftsmen, it happened with journeymen. If you look at a medieval craft hall, the apprentice comes in, they're associated with a master. They're generally trained by the journeymen. They become journeymen in the turn, and some journeymen become masters. But masters never do the teaching because they know too much to explain it. It's often easier to talk to a PhD student in a university than the full professor, for example. That's the principle. So we took that across. If we want to fuse three different domains and create innovative processes, let's take a university example. We take three professors in their field. So you might take philosophy, physics, biology, and there's huge synergies there, by the way, in the way that they look at problems. You might take philosophy, philosophy of mind, biology, physics. You'd have a very senior professor in the field. We call them eagles. When we first did this, we developed it in British Columbia. So this is using Hyderabolic images with permission. And then we have a whole bunch of PhD and Master's students in their field. So we might have three eagles and 21, what are called ravens, in three groups of seven. So we got the professor and seven of their master students. What then happens is the first professor to presents their ideas on the subject, the other two respond. Nobody has any dialogue. It's presentation, presentation, no response. And there's a reason for that, because that's called silent listening. You listen harder if you can't respond, and that's what we're trying for. So they do that. Then we send the groups out in seven groups of three. Each of the groups has one of the disciplines in it. They talk about what they hear, they come back. And then the lead of each group who's associated with the professor sit in a circle and discuss what they heard. That's called a raven circle, and the eagles can only listen, and everybody else can only listen. Then you repeat twice more, rotating the eagles. Eagle two presents one and three respond. Eagle groups go out, raven groups go out, come back, produce circles, and then the third time and then once you've done that, you create three groups of seven, and they're done almost at random. And those groups actually produce a whole bunch of ideas about, well, we know how to synthesize this, and they can pull in the professors if they want, but the professors can't dominate the environment. Now, we did that recently with a pharmaceutical company where we brought together data analytics, pure R and D, and commercial in order to look at drug development. So that's a highly structured process which brings together different ideas or concepts and use the difference between deep knowledge and recent knowledge. The apprentice to a master role to build a process. Now, that's a design process. We're running one for a Norwegian university, I think in January, over one day when we do them for Prime R D, we do them over two to three days. We're doing a big one on the future of education in South Wales in April, and we're currently planning for another one on the West Coast later on in the year. So we do two or three of these a year, post COVID and pre COVID, so you can see what, again, I'm doing. All of these things are creating processes to engage people in different ways. What I'm doing is I'm changing the way that people interact so that they see things differently. I'm not actually telling anything about what sort of behavior I want. I'm just changing the way that people act. And this is a key thing on complexity theory of change. We never talk about desired behaviors. We talk about change in interactions so that the behaviors will emerge, which, by the way, I think is more ethical. The other big area we worked about was when we started to work on Scaffolding. And this is with Anne Pendleton. Julian, if you don't know Anne, she's a really good friend of mine. Her book, Design Unbound, written by John C. Lee Brown in two volumes, is really worth reading. I met her at we were both advisors to the American Department of Defense. We both worked with Special Forces, so we had an affinity there. But if you don't know, she was an astrophysicist. That's her qualification. And then she became a professor of design, the youngest ever female professor at MIT. And she also couldn't cope with the way they treated her was appalling. So she left. Her architectural project at university was to design Carl Sagan's house. So if you ever see Carl Sagan's house and design that brilliant woman, huge amount of fun, lots of stuff online. So she and I and other people worked together and we came up with a typology of scaffolding. So the highly concrete end, you've got the steel scaffolding that you put up to allow a building to be built. And the point about that scaffolding is you take it away once the building is erect, moving into more flexibility. You have bamboo scaffolding. If you've ever been to Hong Kong, they throw bamboo together in multiple connections and actually it's more adaptive, but it takes a higher skill level to do it. Then we get what are called healing grafts. So if you ever get a really bad burn on your hand, then what they'll do is they'll put a nutrient lattice over the burn, which creates a scaffolding around which the skin can regrow, but the nutrients actually support the skin growth, so it dissolves. That's a type of scaffolding. And there's even clever microcardial lace, which I don't fully understand, but it's just brilliant, where they use keyhole surgery to drop a lace on your heart, which has microelectrical filaments in it, and it basically just sinks into the heart and finds ways to connect things which need to be connected. And then you have what? Anton Dark scaffolding, which was attributed to my dark constraints, which is extreme sports. It takes 30 years for the scaffolding to emerge to handle. A new extreme sport can't happen overnight. The practice has to happen, the technology has to happen, the training has to happen. So we now start in a design context to say, what sort of thing are you looking for? The book is called Design unbound. Right? Two volumes. What we first of all say is what type of scaffolding is needed? So you start with the scaffolding and then you identify the objects. And objects can be software or people or material objects. I've been talking about this on NHS design at the moment, because fundamentally, what you need to have the supply chain in the NHS is a nightmare because it's based on a flow based model of people defining what they need in advance, but you don't know what that is. If we actually held suppliers a final level of granularity and gave more autonomy to people, things could be combined and recombined in novel ways. But you need a scaffolding structure for that. So, again, this is a new type of design, which is actually more cost efficient, but it requires distributed decision making, and we've done a lot of work on that lately. And distributed decision making is not the same thing as delegated decision making. That's a really important difference. So you choose a scaffolding, you define your objects and you define your interactions and you see what emerges and. The way we're moving on this on software design at the moment is say people are objects too. You could probably get software out a lot faster if you had human objects which interacted with the software objects around Scaffolding. And once you get sufficient stability, you might automate things, but you don't automate everything up front because human beings can actually handle judgment in different ways. So effectively, that's starting to talk about design as the emergent property of the interaction of multi type objects around Scaffolding over time, with further optimization of structure of stable patterns as they emerge. And this deals with things which can't be known until you deal with it. It's ecological design, it's not engineering design. You're designing an ecosystem which also means you're open to novel forms emerging which you couldn't have anticipated but may be more useful instead. And then the final thing, and I'll stop after this and hope there's loads of questions the latest thing we're doing, which has got me more excited than anything else at the moment, is Esterine mapping. This is actually, I think, going to be bigger than Knevin. It's taken off a lot faster than Knevving did because it's actually fairly simple to understand. So the only thing you can actually manage in a complex adaptive system are constraints. A complex adaptive system, to make the language very clear, has no causality. It has dispositions, it has modulators which have propensities. So it's basically the system is modulated and some of the modulators have propensities which give predictability, but then the dispositional state changes as a result of the modulation. So the more modulators you can control and the better real time feedback you've got, the more you can manage what happens as a result. So now we're moving that concept on at a whole new level, really following on from constructor theory and quantum mechanics. That's the origin of some of these ideas, but we've modified them, so we do a constraint map. We're currently moving that from workshops into software so we can now actually put sense maker out across the whole workforce on a two day pulse or a one month capture to capture the constraints that people see in their day to day lives. We want micro constraints as well as much as macro constraints and therefore continuous capture works. Oh, and by the way, that same thing can also capture frustrations people have got and weak signals of things they feel threatened by and so on. You can do a lot with a Gemba system. So we capture that and then the constraints are mapped onto a grid in which the vertical dimension is the energy cost to change them and the horizontal dimension is the time to change them. And we can automate that and we can color code by impact. You then get the decision makers to draw a line around stuff in the top right where either the energy or the time to change or a combination of both is so high, realistically, they are not going to change. That's called a counterfactual line. And it's quite fascinating. We've done several of these. Now, people can spend hours negotiating that because the act of drawing the boundary makes them think about what sits on either side and what could be changed and break thing up and move them around. That's actually a really valuable exercise in its own right. We then draw a line around the bottom left, which is the vulnerability line. So those are things which can change instantly with zero energy and zero time. So if they're high impact, you may need to contain them or you may need to make the energy cost of change higher because they could damage it. You'll see, I'm building now to a series of small actions rather than the grand plan. And then effectively, the domain between is a domain of strategic operation. So you look at the constraint clusters. You can type them into boundaries, attractors or constructors, or you can just leave them as they are. You decide which are useful, which need to be modified, which need to be destroyed. And then once you've done that, you can decide where you need to create new constructors or new boundaries in order to create the energy gradient. And the whole point about constructor theory is whatever has the lowest energy gradient will win out. So what I'm doing is I'm mapping the present and I'm making changes at a micro level, not at a macro level. And the minute somebody says you need to think holistically, you know, they don't understand complexity because the last thing you do in a complex system is think holistically. You might want to think about it and have some broad visions and go walking in the country and think about the unity of man and nature. That's quite good news. Go do it. But in intervention phase, you want lots and lots of small micro interventions which are highly concrete because you want to be open to novelty in the pathways of interpretation. Now, that's got us excited because it looks to be the next generation of strategy. But what it means is you start to design the system. I'll put it crudely. So the energy cost of virtue is lower than the energy cost of sin. And I'm actually running a seminar on this at Oxford University shortly because the foresight community have realized an energy gradient is a better foresight tool than a scenario because it actually gives you more predictability in terms of the system. Now, that's where I wanted to finish, because it's the latest thing, the three big frameworks in the Knevin firmament, the Knevin Flexulous curves and now Esterine, the reason I viewed called it Esterine was partly to counter constructional law and flow theory because in an estuary, the water flows back up the river as well as down. It's not always in one direction. And there are things you can do at the turn of the tide that you can't do when the tide is flowing in either direction. There are granite cliffs you only have to survey every 50 years, and there are sandbanks you have to check on the turn of every tide and you have to read patterns in the water if you're going to navigate it. So it's a really good metaphor overall. So that to me is kind of like and also for anybody into military environments on this, what we can do with that is we can combine grand strategy with tactics in a single fractal framework. So we break the linearity of grand strategy to tactics. And that also applies in organizations. So you're managing the stuff in real time. And that's where we're moving with some of the visualizations. So that's kind of like where we are. Those some of the things we do in some of the thinking, they're consistent with the raw science, more than open to questions.
[ 0:38:21.000 ---> 0:38:23.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much.
[ 0:38:23.000 ---> 0:38:56.000 ] Speaker B : I'll pick them up. Alicia Giraro's latest book, which is out, I think, in the New Year. I've got the page proofs on the computer and I've been through it with her. She's just written a major book on constraints that's going to be really worth reading. Yeah, that's out shortly. Katrina, sorry, you were just moving your wrist, then you weren't putting your hand up. Sorry, I picked up I can only see one. There's four screens. I can only see one, by the way.
[ 0:38:56.000 ---> 0:39:09.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. If you want, Dave, I can moderate because I can see. So for everyone, try to use the reaction please button in the middle and the raise hand. And Elaine, over to you, please.
[ 0:39:11.000 ---> 0:39:48.000 ] Speaker C : Thank you. So, Dave, I'm wrapping my head around everything you've just said because it's fascinating. I'm really curious to know. So I'm coming from the healthcare background in Ireland, but I'm really curious to know if you've used some of the pieces that you've talked about in terms of the micro level and the constraints at a more local level, if you've used any of that within the NHS around the ICS work. ICS, as in the integrated care system. So that idea about what's the experience yeah. The sense maker probably got me thinking about that. When you put something out on the.
[ 0:39:48.000 ---> 0:40:10.000 ] Speaker B : Web, you'll find a whole load of cases. We're currently in negotiation with one of the Welsh health boards to basically entangle patient stories with medical stories, with relative stories, with resident stories. So we can create an empirical measure of when the community can support early discharge.
[ 0:40:10.000 ---> 0:40:11.000 ] Speaker C : Very good.
[ 0:40:11.000 ---> 0:41:25.000 ] Speaker B : If we can shave 10% extra one that releases one day earlier, that actually gets rid of all sorts of things, and that is that sort of design principle. So what we're looking for is to create an empirical measure of effectively local context decisions rather than having a single strategy. So we've done the theoretical work on that. If anybody's interested. This is something where there is an opportunity to do a club of different health boards who are interested in running an experiment on this, because it's the real hot topic at the moment. The other thing which is related to that is where we've shown evidence that actually A E is better triage for social services than social services. Actually putting a social worker team into A E may save everybody money and yeah, and we've done one project in Abergaveni on that, but now we want to do a more controlled study on that with more academic resource. So I say if anybody's interested in this, just ping us, because we're putting together groups, because we've now got enough experience to know it works, but we need to get it to work in the way in which the NHS accepts things with control and experiment and trial.
[ 0:41:26.000 ---> 0:41:29.000 ] Speaker C : You're more than welcome over in Ireland, Dave. Thank you.
[ 0:41:29.000 ---> 0:41:30.000 ] Speaker B : We're going to be over in January, Elaine.
[ 0:41:30.000 ---> 0:41:31.000 ] Speaker C : OK, great.
[ 0:41:32.000 ---> 0:41:38.000 ] Speaker B : Ellie our medical anthropologist c, and I planning to be in the north in January, so get in touch.
[ 0:41:40.000 ---> 0:41:40.000 ] Speaker C : Thank you.
[ 0:41:41.000 ---> 0:41:45.000 ] Speaker B : I've got to try the Morn walk again, having completely failed halfway around.
[ 0:41:45.000 ---> 0:41:47.000 ] Speaker C : Well, you can come and do the Quilka walk with me.
[ 0:41:47.000 ---> 0:41:53.000 ] Speaker B : No idea how bloody hard it was. And that's where this went. All right, dislocated a finger.
[ 0:41:55.000 ---> 0:41:57.000 ] Speaker A : Andrea, over to you.
[ 0:41:59.000 ---> 0:46:00.000 ] Speaker B : Awesome. Thank you. I loved your stories about the mess of facilitated design thinking workshops. You're talking about sort of the distributed sensing and the distributed ideation, and that mapping has to happen at an abstract level. How abstract does it need to be? And what's the process for making sure that you're mapping at the correct level of abstraction? More abstract the better, is my general view. So at the moment, what we do, if we're looking at a field, we do a literature search on the field, we identify the concepts and then we construct triangles based on those concepts so we can relate it back to the field. And that's really important. We're now starting to use pictures and symbols, so we're moving into semiotics rather than language. And in theory, that should produce better innovation than language, because the abstraction is more likely to create novel connections. Fascinating. Thank you. I have one other quick question. You mentioned distributed decisions and what that is and what that isn't, and if there's any chance maybe you can stick a link in the chat or something about that, I'd be curious. I'm just starting to write it up. So if you look, we developed a method called Entangled trios, which is documented, which was designed to build informal networks, and then we started to realize it could be used for distributed decision making, though we originally did that on health and safety. So, for example, the physio who's dealing with my finger, right? So she's got it from 50% to 18%. I love the hot wax. It's wonderful. And we have really interesting talks but she's head of the hand therapy unit. She knows the stuff, she's got ideas for improvement and she went through them and they're really good ideas, but she doesn't know how to present them to accountants. Right? So the people who have the medical knowledge don't have the knowledge to present it in a way that the accountants will understand. Be a lot easier, ironically, in American hospital, because American hospitals are run by doctors, not by managers. All the heads of American. They're called cully's after Dr. House. In fact, I speak every now, a couple of years at the Cully conference. They quite like being called cully's. All right? They think that's quite good. So what you would do instead is say, okay, if you get a physiotherapist together with a surgeon from a related unit, together with a hospital administrator, understands the budget, those three agree it happens. And then you can build a time lag into that. Say they declare what they're going to do and if nobody objects within 48 hours, they can do it anyway. So what you're doing is you're not distributing to a person, you're distributing to a combination of functions, which gives you transparency and visibility, and that way you can get a lot of decisions made very quickly. I was asked to estimate on that earlier on today, and I said you could probably take on that alone 20% to 30% of the administrative cost of the NHS out if you switch to distributed decision making on micromedical issues in terms of the way it worked and the transparency there. So that actually has got some interest. I may get to a junior minister on that. I've got to write something up over the weekend. But I think distributed decision making is very different because you're distributing into a combination of functions. And the irony is the NHS does it already, because that's how an operating theatre team work. That sort of role based interaction is actually and it's the military form as well, it's called a crew, so we know that works. It's got thousand years of history behind it, literally thousands in terms of the way it works from the gatherer of tribes. So it's just a matter of automating it a bit and by the way, it creates more transparency as well, because you get more decisions with fewer levels of hierarchy, so you get more visibility, more transparency and more knowledge exchange.
[ 0:46:03.000 ---> 0:46:15.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. I'm going to bring one from Walter, just because he relates to the topic that we're talking upon, and he's wondering if mass abstraction isn't that an invitation for over generalization?
[ 0:46:16.000 ---> 0:47:13.000 ] Speaker B : No, abstraction is not generalization. So if we're doing signifiers, we, for example, have six triangles with six, each of the one would have three labels on it. That gives me 18 data points. I'm not generalizing, I'm actually going down a level because I want to combine data at a metadata level. So that's why it's called high abstraction. Metadata. It's not generalization. It actually creates completely novel associations. It's quite interesting. We did one experiment with Tom when he was in charge of Harvard where we had some professors index the Harvard articles from different disciplines. And when people did a search on the abstractions, they made connections between disciplines they'd never made before. There was the same signifiers but different disciplines. So you could see something in this discipline was indexed the same way in this discipline. Why are they indexed the same way? Oh, that's interesting. Maybe I can do something with yeah.
[ 0:47:17.000 ---> 0:47:20.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. Bessir over to you.
[ 0:47:21.000 ---> 0:47:53.000 ] Speaker D : Hello, Dave. Wonderful presentation. I'll make my questions very quick. Can gamba be also be used in scrutinizing information? I mean both in the military context but also in finance because there's considerable disinformation making autopsy disinformation or corrupt data. And if I may ask a second question when we're talking about energy, could we emphasize the focus on trends and drivers to indefinite scope? So instead of making 500 trends and drivers, you just go to indefinite number offer.
[ 0:47:53.000 ---> 0:48:10.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you. Okay I'll need to think about the second one, but the first one remind me of the first one it's late and might have now consumed the first gin and tonic. I had the first one in my mind and I got carried away with.
[ 0:48:10.000 ---> 0:48:13.000 ] Speaker D : The second got it.
[ 0:48:13.000 ---> 0:50:32.000 ] Speaker B : Okay. Is to spot anomalies now what you want and this is where I originally came from remember the whole of Sans maker came from weak signal detection and counterterrorism for John Poindexer in the US government. That's where this stuff started is there's lots of things I want to report, but I'm not going to report them because I might get it wrong. The last know you see this with engineers there was a debate on one of the online forum on today about some software smells wrong, which is actually it does some software literally smell it just smells wrong. You know there's something wrong about it, but you're not going to complain about it because you may be attributable the other example is misogyny. I was talking with one female agile speaker the other day and somebody else, a really famous agile person who was male, slapped a bottom as she walked off the stage and said, see you later. All right. That's in 2022. And if you talk with some of the female agile speakers, that's quite common. But nobody wants to complain about it, including in companies, because then you get a second level of abuse. When HR pull you in, force you to face the person who did it all gets traumatic. The same is true in safety. If something isn't auditable in the sense that you have to report it, you're probably not going to report it. So what we do is we capture that stuff in Gemba, we strip it out of the system so the company is not legally aware of the data. That's deliberate when it's put in, it's immediately stripped out and then we just run algorithms over it. The minute we get a statistically significant pattern, we punch it back to the company. We say, you've got a problem here now that we're talking about with audits at the moment, because that's a way of actually helping get audit to know where to focus. So that's a big area at the moment. And I say we're probably going to launch something shortly just on the misogynism, racism, diversity, so that people don't actually have to suffer as a result of reporting small things which they know aren't serious enough to report and get people into trouble before. But a pattern of lot of small things actually means you've got a big thing about to hit you. There.
[ 0:50:32.000 ---> 0:51:01.000 ] Speaker D : Is the US threat assessment perspective in US law enforcement, perhaps I guess it's necessary to bring it across to Europe as opposed to the conventional model and very one last comment, good sir, regarding the US medical system. So in the US, is the health system getting two for the price of one? They have the doctor and they don't need the executive. So the doctor will probably spend 80, 90% of the time in medicine and then the only remaining 10%.
[ 0:51:01.000 ---> 0:53:59.000 ] Speaker B : What you actually see is I've been, for example, in West Virginia, and basically the head of the hospital comes in in a white coat, having just done wardrounds. And that is actually far more effective. I mean, the other big disaster in the British health system, by the way, which didn't happen in Northern Ireland, but happened everywhere else, is getting rid of matrons. They were engineered out of the system as a surplus level of management and they were holding the whole bloody system together and they kept them in Northern Ireland because they could see I mean, I know the matron of martyrdale. Without her, Belfast would have collapsed, right? But that was the point we lost. This is the unknown knowns, the processes which have emerged over the years, which hold things together and deal with discrepancies. And again, that's kind of like an area we need to work on. Thank you, Utrecht. Hi, Dave. Thank you so much. So I just had one question. I'm still stuck on your statement that the energy gradient of virtue is less than the energy gradient of sin. My question I said you need to make the energy cost of virtue less than the energy cost of sin. Yes, sir. My question was, my observation is that the energy gradient of sin seems to be higher, looking at the stage of world right now, than the energy gradient of virtue, because sin is more prevalent. Sorry, do it the other way around. When we're talking about energy cost of changing things at the moment, it's easier to sin than it is to be virtuous. So you need to change the energy cost so the things you want will cost less energy than the things you don't want. That's the principle. Okay, but when you apply more energy, doesn't that energy apply to the sinners as well? No. You're looking at the wrong way. All right. You're trying to change individuals. What you're trying to do is change the environment so individuals follow pathways. Thank you so much. You're not trying to change the person. I think the fundamental on I did the ICF presentation the other day, and I decided to help with it. I'm just going to go for it. I said the biggest thing the OD profession could do is abandon every single method based on Freud and Young, and then we might have a chance of making progress. And they're still recovering from that. But they are thinking about it, to be fair to them. Right. I mean, they're all basing it on 19th century stuff by two old white bearded guys, one of who sexually abuses patients on a regular basis. People forget that about Young. Sorry, you answered my question, Chips. It's about the energy change required to change the system, not the people. Thank you so much. I'm sorry for my confusion. That's okay. No problem.
[ 0:54:02.000 ---> 0:54:08.000 ] Speaker A : We are over time. And Dave, I know it's late at night. Would you be okay with taking an extra question? Yeah. Okay.
[ 0:54:09.000 ---> 0:58:41.000 ] Speaker B : You're over to you 20 minutes, so that's fine. Okay. Thank you for your time. I really appreciate it. Harry Potter marathon in this house at the moment, so it's Peter and two Harry Potter movies tonight. I'm arriving here as a classroom teacher here in the United States. I'm fairly new to system thinking. I've only been in it for a couple years through Escape it now. Yeah. It's incredibly fascinating. I'm mostly familiar through Senge and Sharmer and Meadows, but I think your take on it, especially in how you provide a contrast to the engineering side of things, is really compelling. Sorry, go on. I'll let you come to question, then I'll hit it. Would you be willing to speak briefly on how you would approach sense making and constraints management in the school setting? Yeah, I'll do that. Just let me just see. With a system, meadows is one of the pioneers in systems thinking. Everybody should read like everybody should read Beer and everybody should read Forrester. But you should realize this is science of 50 or 60 years ago, and we know much more now. Forrester famously said of Sengi, there's always room for somebody to popularize something they didn't understand and make money out of it, all right? And if you really want to upset systems thinkers, say, oh, you're Peter Sengi, and wait for them to come back and hit you because they get really irritated by it. All right? But they're still happy to have him on the platform because of the fame. Sengi and Shamiga to me, are two major causes of problems worldwide at the moment. Because they're neocolonial. What they've got is they've got a vision of the future, which is based on white male MIT professors from a liberal environment. And they think if everybody comes to workshops and talks with them, then magically we'll get to the right place. And from my point of view, that's called lotus eating. It's like the internal development goals. It's a complete distraction. And there's a lot of far right libertarian right money in the States going into New Age movements because they distract people from engaging with the politics. It's a significant issue. So to be quite honest, Senge and Sharma, to my mind, is an evolutionary dead end. You'll end up with some wonderful workshops where everybody will feel really good about life and how everybody should be like they come up with and nothing will change. Don't get me onto the Scottish example of bloody theory you stuff. All right, you can draw it as a U, but it's still a straight line and it's based on maturity models which aren't valid. Nora Bateson has famously said all maturity models are a modern form of eugenics, and I completely agree with her on that. Just think that through because that has implications. Now, coming out of the school classroom just actually been working down this Atlantic College, which has been really interesting. They're really bright 17 year olds from all the way around the world and it's scholarship based, so they're not all elite in that sense. And there is some interesting stuff I'll just throw into people, that two or three of the elite schools I've been advising in the States have got rid of all computers from the classroom from the age of eleven onwards because they know that the next elite of humans will not actually have been patent and trained by computers. That's actually quite important. And it's like the evidence now is if you give iPads to kids under three, you basically trigger the autism gene because it rewards that response. This is sort of one generation epigenetics. So if you're looking at a classroom, we would do things like, for example, do the energy gradient map for the school, what are the constraints, which can we change? So start this really pragmatic, bottom up stuff. We've also done stuff where we, I mean, we use schoolchildren a lot as ethnographers to their local communities, which is a great school project and that can actually inform public policy. But then you can look at teachers perspective of the stories, against pupils perspective of the stories, and you can ask question about why do you think it's different? And that changes the way you do evaluation. So instead of having people do evaluative scores, everybody describes things and looks at difference in the way they describe it and ask why those things are different. And that creates micro interventions. If you want to email me, we'll happily send you more on that. Thank you very much, sir. Any other sacred cows anybody wants me to take down? All right, I'm up for it.
[ 0:58:42.000 ---> 0:58:57.000 ] Speaker A : I would love to ask you a little bit more about dead ends on distributed discovery, some of the avenues that perhaps seemed promising only a couple of years ago that have been tried and discarded.
[ 0:58:59.000 ---> 1:04:43.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, so I think, as I say, I think if you look, systems thinking is a general name for a whole series of things. All right, so you've got Soft Systems with Peter Checklin and I did a lot of work with Peter in the early days and I took a lot of his methods across into workshops. But my problem with soft systems, it doesn't scale beyond the workshop. So we recognize that we use some of the techniques, but beyond the workshop it just doesn't scale. And that, to my mind, is the real problem. Nearly every systems thinker has people in workshops to agree how things should be. And that won't scale. You then get cybernetics. I love Stafford Beer, but I said famously, there's no way Stafford Beer would have created the VSM model if he'd known about complexity theory. He just didn't have the science to understand it. So he got pretty close with VSM. But it's an overstructured system and if you look at what, for example, Patrick Hofsteder is doing, I strongly recommend Patrick's books. He's identifying patterns, so he's creating a pattern language or strategy. And I really upset him the other day I said, I've taken your book off the top ten list of systems thinking books because I think you might actually be getting near to complexity. And he's still trying to work out how much of an insult that was. But basically the problem is his patterns are too low level of granularity. That was the problem with pattern language. It got the intuition right, there are patterns, but then it tried to identify the patterns as causal patterns. It didn't go down the next level. So that was useful. But again, I think cybernetics has seen its day, right? You then got systems dynamics. And the trouble with systems dynamics, it assumes everything is causal because it's causal feedback loops with definable outcomes. And if you look at the maps people produce, they're wonderful for the people who produce them, but no decision maker can understand them. The famous US Army comment about if we ever understand that map we'll have beaten Al Qaeda is actually a good example of, I mean, Michael Jackson, I'm giving the Michael Jackson lecture next year in Hull, by the way, so that's going to be fun. People are selling tickets to it. He's trying to put everything together under critical systems thinking, including complexity, and basically saying these are all under this broad general title that's actually quite dangerous. Sorry, I'm a philosopher. Distinctions matter. If you homogenize everything, you get no variety. You need what we call coherent heterogeneity. So you need different things in work in different ways. There's a lot of methods of systems thinking which carry over into workshops. But the overall science we've moved on from and the pathways are different. Most systems thinking I know Patrick disagrees with me on this, but he's wrong on many things. This is another one. Systems thinking really comes from Shannon and Ashby in information science, whereas complexity comes from biology and chemistry, and they intersect from time to time and they use some language in common, but fundamentally, they have different bases. And there's a big difference between what we do, which is called anthro complexity, and what Santa Fe do, which is called computational complexity. So even now we're starting to open it. So I would say respect it, learn from it, pick up the methods, but realize the science has moved on. The other thing is behavioralism. I mean, Skinner was a disaster if you look at it. Nudge theory, which everybody's got enthusiastic about, there's been a meta study of all the published papers on nudge theory which proves it's had actually zero effect. Colleagues of Minotabaris with the university have wrote in a brilliant book called Neuralibralism, which respects what's good about behavioralism, but is an all out attack on nudge theory as basically subordinating cognitive science to the needs of neoliberal economics. They just got another book out, by the way, on the role of technology, which uses some of our material. So I think behavioralism is another problem. And the trouble is that comes in with the Young and Freud stuff. The fundamental error in organizational design is to assume that organizations are collections of individuals. And you can change the organization by changing the individuals. Actually, you can't, and it's not ethical to do so. You can change how people interact and then respond to what emerges from that. And there's two words I would ban. One is mindset, and the other is mental models. Mental models is just wrong. Cognition is distributed. It's not just the brain, it's the body, it's its social environment. So mental models, that's how computers make decision. It's not how people make decisions. So I get rid of that one. Conflicting mindset is overused. I mean, there can be a mindset, but it's not the cause of things. Agile people keep doing this. We have this wonderful agile transformation project. By the way, if anybody uses the word transformation run a mile, you've got a failure doomed to happen, right? Yeah, we got this wonderful trans. It didn't work. Your mindset wasn't right. And it's just ridiculous if you think about it. We instead of mindset, we talk about affordance, agency and assemblage. So what are the affordances available to people to make decisions? And those are complex. What are the assembly structures, which means the patterns of collective narrative, which determine how we see the world? And thirdly, what level of agency do people have? Now, if you look at those three, you can then modify them to change what happens, which is a lot easier than trying to change your mindset. So I ranted off over a few things, but hopefully that answered it.
[ 1:04:45.000 ---> 1:04:46.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much.
[ 1:04:48.000 ---> 1:05:41.000 ] Speaker B : David. Okay, thanks. So I have no access to sensemaker yet, but so I'm wondering how could I collect and collect all the micronarratives without the Sense Maker tool and make maybe an energy gradient map and stuff? You talked about the energy gradient stuff. We published it's on our open source Wiki. It's a method. You don't need sense maker. You can just use brainstorming. So I actually wrote it up on the Wiki on my blog, and somebody's actually moved that across to the Wiki already. So knevin IO, all of our methods are open source. You can join that if you're interested. Also get in touch because we're interested in mentoring people through this at the moment so we can see how different people from different backgrounds use it. Okay, cool. I will. Thank you very much and good night. Thanks.
[ 1:05:46.000 ---> 1:05:51.000 ] Speaker A : Dave. Could you tell us a little bit more about Affordance agency and assembled?
[ 1:05:51.000 ---> 1:07:28.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, so Affordance comes from know a cactus will not thrive in a tropical rainforest. So it's what opportunities are afforded to you by the environment. So that can be your education, your background, what the company does. So it's what does the environment enable you to do or not to do? And by the way, Sri mapping maps, that so that gives you that assemblages. This is something we do with Sense Maker. This is Deleuze and Gatileri theory. Assembly is a stranger. Tractor is a trope. So we gather stories across the organization. We identify the patterns in those stories. And if you have a very strong pattern, you will not be able to escape it. That's actually how things like Trump work. It's a pattern of stories. And this is the interesting about neomaterialism for people who aren't into it, what neomaterialism says is human social constructs gain material reality. So we don't have to talk about social constructivism and we don't have to talk about postmodernism. And there's a really strong feminist influence in that because they've realized if everything is socially constructed and everything is postmodern, you can't argue against. Yeah. And that actually is quite important. That goes back to Mitchley and Anskin and the Second World War against Hitler. So that's that. And then agency is who or what in what combinations can actually do something. It's not about mindset. It's about those three. Fantastic.
[ 1:07:28.000 ---> 1:08:20.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much. Alexander, over to you. Hi, Dave. Thank you for your lecture. I'm from Brazil. Still recovering from the World Cup defeat just now. Yeah. And I work in the health sector here. I'm a family physician, and sometimes I have a hard time to communicate the complexity aspects from my bosses, especially, and they accuse me of being perhaps too theoretical or philosophical, and I may be that sometimes. And how do you communicate the pragmatist sense of what you're saying, which I love. It to help executives and managers and people that sometimes wants a very cartesian view of stuff.
[ 1:08:20.000 ---> 1:10:35.000 ] Speaker B : I think generally people who say you're being too academic or that I don't understand language mean I don't want to understand it or I don't want to change, to be honest. All right, I'm a bit cynical about this. Now. People who are genuinely curious if you give language they're not familiar with will actually look it up and have a conversation with you. But I wouldn't do that anymore. Complexity. We've moved from early adopter to early majority in marketing terms. People are now actually not saying how will you do it? They're saying, what will it do for me? So what we're doing is going to the medical profession and say, look, this is a method, this is a tool. We can produce this result. So we're working with the Royal College of Nurses at the moment and that's a published project. So you offer tools based on the theory, but you only explain theory if they ask you. And I would say that's where we are with complexity theory. Don't beat the drum on theory because that's what the systems guys have been doing. And they keep saying, if only everybody thought like a systems thinker the world would be a wonderful place, then it's not going to happen yet. We're now at the stage where it's practical tools and techniques which are theoretically sound, but people can understand. That's why I'm really excited by astronom mapping. People can pick it up without even knowing the theory and they can make sense of it. So that's where I would go. If you have a look on the website, there's a whole brochure of the projects we're doing in the health sector. Yeah. The most recent one, which I'm really pleased, which we really want to replicate around the world, is we worked in residential care homes in the Netherlands and we did continuous narrative capture of medical staff, residents and relatives. That was originally designed to supplement the medical transaction systems, but it flipped. The medical transaction systems now provide that because the narrative gives us a quant approach and it gives us much more objective data about localized care, but it also gives us early warning from the relative stories of abuse. So that's Netherlands government government funded two years case studies. It's much easier to say, why don't we try that that these people have done than why don't you listen to me about complexity theory? Cool.
[ 1:10:36.000 ---> 1:10:42.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. profat, over to you.
[ 1:10:43.000 ---> 1:14:51.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you. Dave, you've been criticizing human maturity models and you mentioned Nora Basin in this regard. And I wonder, what is your take on the organizational lifecycle theory? I think it's similar crap. It's like the forest cycle. You see, there seems to be this need for people to create maturity levels, model levels, and they privilege the people who takes you through them. Right. And no organization is ever in one system anyway. It's multifaceted with multiple aspects to it and this is why we do constructor mapping, and it's fractal. So once we've done the constructor mapping, we can say, this is what it looks like for your division. This look what it looks like for the company as a whole. So we source the representations from the same source data. We never aggregate on levels. We put it together. Now, you may then see some linear progressions, but it's not that linear progression is necessarily right or that companies will evolve in the same way. So some companies evolve by a Federated structure, keeping their numbers less than 50, for example. That's a very different way. You don't then develop the same level of bureaucracy. So I would be very cautious because the trouble is consultants love this sort of thing because they can get you to score where you are, and then you spend a fortune with them to move you to the next level. And it's just bad science. It just doesn't work like that. Human beings are much more context specific than we realize. And the other problem you've got is people are taking children change. All right, so brain, let's give you the fundamental right. Your brain is very plastic until you're two or three. In fact, some of your neocortex processing is done by your carers. We're not sure the mechanism how, but it is. So actually, if you don't get the right sort of nurture before you're three or four, all sorts of things never develop in the brain. For example, connections just don't develop. You don't see racism in kids until after puberty. Again, we're not sure of the mechanism. But kids before puberty, they'll parrot words, but they'll play with anybody. They don't see handicapped the same way adults see it either. Right after puberty, you start to lock down based on the prejudices of the tribe. Early 20s female, late 20s male. You can lie over unless you suffer trauma until late forty s. Fifty s, where chemically triggered male and female alike become plastic again. All right, now, the evolutionary model for that is really simple, kind of like you've already had until puberty, a long time to learn. Now you've got to adopt the prejudices of the tribe because you've got to act as a unit. If you survive into your forty s and fifty s, well, you're no longer physically able to lead the tribe, but you've got something about you. So you go into the wisdom business and teach the kids. Now that is a physical change. But you can't then say adult development follows that pattern. And remember, all even the childhood development things based on Piaget, who did studies on his own children, isn't an adequate sample anyway. So this linear, hierarchical thing is actually an Enlightenment European myth. It's very, very culturally specific in terms of the way it works. So I would be very wary of all of those. I'd start to map where we are and identify at a micro level where we should move next and then think about have we made progress or not? Thank you very much. By the way, that's why in change mechanisms we put new joiners together with people about to retire in a trio, with somebody on the fast track management program. So we're putting young and naive with older networks, with somebody who wants to exploit the idea and that actually is a very effective change mechanism. Throw 20 or 30 of those triads at a problem, they'll generate far more money than workshops led by consultants.
[ 1:14:58.000 ---> 1:15:20.000 ] Speaker A : Super interesting. Dave, thank you so much for all of these, really appreciate it. I'm going to close with one last question that I think finishes slightly with the opinion that many of us have had of this talk. And it was I'm also highly interested in apprenticeship learning opportunities from Kinefin that.
[ 1:15:20.000 ---> 1:15:41.000 ] Speaker B : Avrah Toss was sharing with us that's already answered that. Get in touch. We also basically put together clubs and programs so that people can work together using the methods and tools as a way of funding stuff, so we can be quite creative on that. So get in touch. Great.
[ 1:15:41.000 ---> 1:15:58.000 ] Speaker A : Well, thank you again and thank you very much everyone for joining us. Hope you enjoyed it. If you haven't, follow us on Twitter, we'll be there. And also further up in the chat, I shared the discord link where we can continue this conversation later on. Have a lovely rest of the day, everyone.
[ 1:15:59.000 ---> 1:16:02.000 ] Speaker C : Thanks very much. Bye everyone. Bye for Jen. And bye.
