[ 0:00:16.000 ---> 0:27:28.000 ] Speaker A : Hello, everyone. Good morning. Good afternoon. My name is Bartek Stardy. I'm coming at you today from the perspective of city government and especially governance within the context of a smaller city and also within the context of really a lot of urgent issues and the need to find solutions quite quickly. So I'm going to speak for about 2025 minutes. Just have about 15 slides and then we can have a discussion. So I'm the Director of Housing Initiatives for the city of Kingston, New York, which, if you know the geography, a little bit of New York. It's about 90 minutes north of New York City. I started in this position in January of this year, so I'm a little bit new. But what I do want to stress is that this is a new position for the city. It's also a pretty unique position for a city the size of Kingston to have. The other thing I want to stress before I get into the slides is that governance, and especially the process of community engagement has really changed a lot during and after COVID. The expectations have changed, the formats have changed. So there's a lot of experimentation here right now, which I think is quite interesting because I think it was quite stale, if you will, before the Pandemic in terms of the same methods, the same processes. And I think things are changing quite quickly, which makes this, I think, quite interesting. Okay, so I'm just going to go over Kingston, my experience in local government. Then I have two policy case studies. Okay, so I'm the Director of Housing and I'm the Director of housing for a city that has a pretty extreme housing crisis. We were briefly famous during the Pandemic because we had the largest increases in home prices year over year in the entire country. So there was a lot of press about Kingston itself throughout the Pandemic and this has really continued through this year as well. Kingston is that the name of the county that we're in is called and, you know, just another chart to show visually the increases in home prices. We're a pretty old city. We were New York's first capital for a brief time in 1777. So we have a lot of old housing stock. We're an old city, right, old infrastructure. And that comes with its own set of challenges. Our population is about 24,000, so we're somewhat pretty small. The annual home price increases is about 30% year over year. The rental vacancy rate is 1.5% per the last study. So what that means is that at any given time, 1.5% of all apartment units are vacant or available to be rented. What that basically means is that there's nothing available. So what have I learned from local government so far since I've been here in January? So, first, because of the number of checks and balances, local government governance process can seem slow. So this can be frustrating for pressing issues it can also be a disincentive for proposing new ideas for even the most motivated of stakeholders. However, I use the word seam because it can also be very effective and the process does actually work. And once you understand it, it's actually pretty simple. And I'll go over that a little bit later. Second thing that I've learned so there's at times a pretty awkward interaction between the elected officials of the city government and the government staff, of which I'm a part. The government staff is the one that tends to actually bring anything meaningful forward, while the elected officials in this case primarily discuss and debate those proposals. But generally speaking, there's not a lot of collaboration between those two groups. Within the core team itself, there's a lot of disagreement about the level of community engagement that is always needed. All right, so there's different approaches within the government staff itself or the core team, but there's a pretty strong desire to formalize the process so that they know in advance, so that they have a predictable process that they follow. It makes everyone's job presumably much easier, right? And lastly, even for an issue such as housing, where I discussed previously, we're at such a crisis level, the level of public engagement still verges on apathetic, right? However, there are certain outreach methods that can pretty effectively bridge the gap. So, for instance, for a city of 24,000, kingston has a pretty strong civil society, right? There's different boards, there's different nonprofits, there's different foundations, there's private sector actors. And even though these groups don't have a formal role in the governance process or in the policy making process, reaching out to these established groups can bridge the gap pretty effectively for most issues. So before I jump into my case studies, I do just want to go into a little bit of theory and just about the role of decentralized governance in city government. I'm just going to read this quote. So, decentralizing governance enables people to participate more directly in governance process and can empower people previously excluded from decision making. Decentralized areas of administration pave the way towards a better understanding between citizens and officials. It increases efficiency and responsiveness of government. So some might see this as a somewhat controversial quote if you're in government. Perhaps, perhaps not. But I completely agree with this statement that in general, community engagement and even attempting some level of decentralized governance does improve the outcome of any policy that is being created. It might slow the process down, but I think it's worth trying, at least from where I'm sitting. All right, so bear with me here. I just have a few slides about how governance works in the city of Kingston. So there's a formal governance process, right? So there's a piece of legislation, and maybe I'm the one as a city staff person that's proposing it. It's brought to a common council committee. The Common Council is the legislative body of the city of Kingston, there's four different committees. Once it makes it out of committee, the full common council votes on that proposal and then the mayor signs it. 99% of items that get out of committee are passed by the common council. All right? And this is because currently the common council committees work via consensus process. So if there's a real issue about the piece of legislation, it's typically amended within the committee. Right? Because I think there's a general agreement that if I'm on the common council and my peer says that they have a major issue with that piece of legislation, generally speaking there's a strong desire and incentive to amend that piece of legislation so that there's general consensus. So most things that get out of committee pretty much sail through the common council vote and then also the mayor's signature that's needed. The common council and the mayor are presumed to be accountable via the election process. So the common council, they're up every two years, then the mayor is every four years. The last thing I'll say about the slide is that Kingston has a strong mayor form of government and so that means that the legislative body, meaning the common council, cannot spend its own money nor can it make its own appointments. The mayor has power in this regard. There's also this informal governance process that happens before the legislation comes to the common council, right? So there might be a project proposal again from a staff member and then somewhere in between when that happens and when the legislation actually is presented to the common council, there's community outreach. But again, as I mentioned that community outreach is not generally well defined. Sometimes what's called a project advisory committee, a pack is created. So this is probably the most formal way of community outreach. So the pack is typically made up of the representatives that are impacted or the key stakeholders that are part of a project. So for example, if there's a street reconstruction project that might involve the pack might be made up of a few residents of that street, the pastor of the local church or perhaps two business owners. There might be additional public meetings as part of the process. But generally speaking, the city will assume that the Pac speaks for the interests of the street as a whole. And again the Pac operates via consensus. So if there's disagreement, it's not going to make it out of the pack. The Pac sometimes is mandated by the funding source of a project, but other times it just makes sense given the project as a whole. Now for certain projects though, the bar for the outreach is generally considered to be much higher. So for instance, if there's a plan to adopt a general plan for electric vehicle incentives in the city of Kingston, the common council might expect that the plan sponsor speaks to the transportation groups in the city, for instance. But if there's a plan for electric vehicles that will somehow perhaps impact parking throughout the city. The expectation might be that the sponsor makes an attempt to notify residents citywide, right? So there's different based on the impact. The expectation might differ, but that's not written down anywhere. It's what I call informal. All right, so I have two case studies. The first one is the case of rent control. All right? So this just happened. So this is an article from August 2, 2022. Kingston recently became the first upstate city to adopt rent control in New York. And for those not familiar with geography here, by upstate, the terminology here is outside of the New York City area. And so this was widely regarded as a pretty big. York has a has a framework for red control the state, but as a municipality, you have to opt into that. So we did that earlier this month. So what I'll say about this issue is that even though it impacts only a couple of dozen buildings in Kingston and about 1200 units in the city of 24,000, this was a pretty sexy issue. It's something that you could either get behind or oppose a simple up and down vote, right? So in this case, I proposed the legislation, the Common Council passed it. They held a public hearing, which we had to do by law in this case, mandated by the state. But there was no other community outreach as part of that process. There was a huge turnout in the public hearing that the Common Council called before voting to opt in. However that happened, even though there was very little public outreach and very little lead time for the public hearing itself. An interesting part of the governance of this law, now that we have it in place, is that rents are controlled by something called the Rent Guidelines Board. And so the board votes via a majority vote. So it's made up of two property representatives, two owner representatives, two tenant representatives, and five members of the public. So the thinking here is right, that the property owners have an incentive to approve higher rent increases, the tenant representatives have an incentive for lower rent increases, and the members of the public might be somewhere in the middle. And in this governance structure, the members of the public, by design, outweigh the tenants and the owners so they can outvote both the tenants and the owners. And they're appointed, via recommendation of the legislative body, the Common Council, in this case. So that was the case of rent control. And again, we sped through this process as a city. This was a big vote, but the impact is somewhat limited. So here's another case study that's happening right now in Kingston. And it's the case of zoning. In my view, there's no other issue as important to housing issue as zoning is. And zoning basically sets the framework for how you can build where you can build it. If it's too restrictive, you're not going to be able to have any housing over the long term. The city of Kingston's current zoning code was completed in 1963, so it hasn't been updated for a long time. The mayor made the decision to do a complete redo in 2018. Rarely do cities do a citywide rezoning, especially places with the population of Kingston. So this is a huge opportunity, not only for Kingston, but also for me, within city government, to engage the citizens at large via process that will be a process that will be inclusive because the end result is going to impact everyone. The challenge of this issue, compared to rent control, is it does not have the same level of sexiness in any way. Right. This is a 200 page document. It's easy to tune out. It's a little bit more difficult to understand, even though the long term impact is potentially much more transformational. It impacts all aspects of affordability accessibility. Overly restrictive zoning makes it very difficult to build new housing, driving up rents and prices. And outdated zoning leads to bad decision and very poor urban planning. Um, the current plan so this is a piece of legislation that's in process. It's very much an active one, but the proposals are quite sweeping in terms of what we're proposing to change. Right? So, single family zoning, if you're familiar with urban planning in the United States, it's kind of a very common type of zoning, which basically says you can only build single family homes, single family dwellings throughout much of the city. Our current zoning plan would change that. So I just highlight this as one of the issues that I'm not going to go into detail about what's in the zoning itself, but just know that it's quite a change. Right. And so it speaks to the importance of engaging the community. Just going to briefly walk through this timeline with you. So I mentioned the process started in 2018. The city hired a consultant to do the project in 2021. This was somewhat delayed because of the pandemic. We started with a visioning process last fall. So before we even wrote anything down and I'll go into this a little bit later, what is the vision for our community? Right? What do we want long term to solve in our community? How should we Kingston look in the next 50 years? These are the types of big questions that we ask. We released the first draft this spring. We did a lot of community outreach to get input on that first draft. I'll talk a little bit about that as well. Second draft was released this Monday. We're doing another round of input this month, and then that will get us to a final draft. That will go to a common council committee. The Laws and Rules Committee. In this case, if it makes it out of committee, it then goes to the full Common Council and then the mayor will sign it. So I'm just going to briefly discuss this visioning process. Our goal here was to do as many different formats as possible and engage as many different people within those formats as possible. So we had a citywide meeting that was in person and virtual. We had an online survey that could be filled in at any time. We had outside neighborhood walking tours. We had specific stakeholder meetings, right? So if you're interested in economic development, we invited those specific stakeholders to give us input. And then there was also drop in sessions. So there was hours where we were at a community center where you could just informally drop in, ask questions, provide your feedback. The outreach for draft one was somewhat similar to the divisioning aspect, where we had a written public comment period. We had a citywide meeting that was in person, virtual, neighborhood drop ins, and then walking tours. And then the most important aspect, I think, that we did for this draft one is that we captured every single piece of input that we received, regardless of which of these formats you participated in. We wrote that down and then we responded to each and every comment when we released the first draft. So I think transparency, this is important, but also I think it shows that we're listening and that we're taking each comment into consideration because we have to respond to each one and justify whether we think that change justify why we made that change that was proposed or why we didn't. So, you know, as I mentioned, this is a really complex change. This is a big policy change. There's there's still criticism that the outreach that we've completed so far has not been intentional and that most people are not aware that this is happening. So, in other words, the feeling is we can't just put this zoning plan out there and expect feedback to kind of flow in. There are certain people that are really involved and have been since the beginning, and some of these people are really for the plan and some are really against it, but still, at certain events, surprisingly low turnout given the potential impact of this. And the problem for me is that I truly believe that more input, especially now that we have working drafts, would improve the plan, right? So a lot of the comments that we received on the first draft, almost 50%, led to changes in the draft itself, right? And so comments that are received shape the draft, which will impact the city for generations to come. So I need more input, right? I need more feedback because I know it's going to make the draft better. It's been quite interesting experimenting with the different formats so far, so that's been helpful. But my goal going forward is to really reach out intentionally to certain stakeholder groups that I know should be participating and whose feedback I know will improve the process. So I'm pivoting, if you will, from putting it out there to being a little bit more intentional in my outreach. So just a few overall learnings from zoning and then rent control, number one is quite clear. Issues that are regarded as pressing will get more attention. I start as an advantage in this regard because housing there's pretty broad consensus that this is important, that we need to do something. But still, as you saw, with rent control, that led to a lot of attention, zoning a little bit less. So intentional outreach. I think it's clear that if we can show that we reached out to certain stakeholder groups, especially those that might have been shut out of processes in the past, we'll make the end result more legitimate and the end product more legitimate. A third bullet point. Who has the convening power and the legitimacy here? And I think this is a little bit of a surprise for me, but it's not always city government in this case. In certain cases, it might be a nonprofit actor or church. If the church says, we're convening around this, they're going to turn out people. If the city does the same thing, the city might not always have the legitimacy and the convening power here. And then lastly, I'll just mention I'm quite interested in the aspect of citizens assemblies as an alternative outreach model. And if I had to do the zoning process again, I probably would go for this as another. So, you know, briefly, if you're not familiar, this is where I think this is quite somewhat common in France. I know Paris has been doing this for a know there's random selections. Those citizens are chosen by lottery. And then this group of citizens hear both sides of an issue right here from experts, interest groups and witnesses. And then the citizens debate among themselves. And they either have advisory power or in some cases might even have a power that's binding regarding a decision. All right, and this is my last slide here. So this is the city of Kingston, City Hall. Symbolically, it's quite important in Kingston because it's on top of a hill and literally right in the middle of the city. And it fell out of use in the early 90s, so it was vacant for about ten years. And its vacancy coincided with the economic decline of Kingston as a whole, and I think a loss of confidence within the city. And so the restoration of this historic City Hall rekindled the kind of confidence in the power of local government and in just Kingston as a whole. And so I think it has important symbolism, but it also has beautiful meeting space, beautiful meeting spaces, views of the mountains, as you see. But, and this has been surprising to me, anytime I've held any kind of event in here, no one turns up. All right? No one comes to my meetings at City Hall. It's when I host meetings outside of City Hall and intentionally pick places outside of City Hall that I get any kind of feedback or real participation at all. So I'll end there. Thank you.
[ 0:27:33.000 ---> 0:27:53.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you, Barjek. That's quite both. A bit sad, but also revealing that people don't show up at City Hall. Maybe they are weirded out by the authority of it. I don't know. Something like that.
[ 0:27:53.000 ---> 0:27:53.000 ] Speaker A : Right.
[ 0:27:57.000 ---> 0:28:09.000 ] Speaker B : I'm going to ask people to ask their questions. Either you can type them in the chat and I'll read them out loud if you don't want to say them out loud yourself, or you can do like Sandy and put your hand up and ask it. So, Sandy, go ahead.
[ 0:28:11.000 ---> 0:28:11.000 ] Speaker A : Hi.
[ 0:28:12.000 ---> 0:28:21.000 ] Speaker C : Thank you so much for that presentation. I also grew up in a small town in upstate New York. I know Kingston.
[ 0:28:21.000 ---> 0:28:22.000 ] Speaker A : Excellent.
[ 0:28:23.000 ---> 0:28:37.000 ] Speaker C : I would know my solution to empty City Hall would be host a big party or something. Make it fun. Free movie nights or matinees or something.
[ 0:28:38.000 ---> 0:28:38.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah.
[ 0:28:39.000 ---> 0:30:28.000 ] Speaker C : So I really appreciated your explanation of the political process and how it worked in the smaller city. It's similar. I'm from Miami now. It's similar in our local and state politics as well. And I really appreciate your focus on the outreach and all the ideas that you had and the insight that you derived about being intentional about the outreach, all of that. I was, like, shaking my head yes the whole time. I read this fascinating book by George Sarkadakis called Cyber Republic, and he's the founder of Voxibirate, which is right now Rolling Think. I'm not sure if they're out of beta yet, but they're partnering with different organizations. So what that is, is he basically created an AI platform that facilitates citizen assemblies. And it has, like, a fair sortition algorithm so that it can take your community and select the people for the citizen assemblies that will be representative of your community and then facilitates a deliberation process that can happen online, which also could become more accessible to people as well. And so I got the demo of it and I was really impressed by the demo, and I'm excited to see this rolling out in different places. But it can be a part of a dow deliberation level or layer, as well as kind of like an analog or in real life kind of deliberation. And the book is fascinating too, so I actually think that the citizen assembly model is the way to go. So it's really interesting to hear that that's what you're doing, and I'd love to hear the follow up on how that works for you.
[ 0:30:29.000 ---> 0:30:32.000 ] Speaker A : Great. Cyber Republic. Yes.
[ 0:30:32.000 ---> 0:30:33.000 ] Speaker C : I'll put it in the chat too.
[ 0:30:33.000 ---> 0:30:34.000 ] Speaker A : Great, thanks.
[ 0:30:40.000 ---> 0:33:09.000 ] Speaker B : While everybody else is thinking about their questions, I'm going to throw something out there as well. I was listening to you, Bartek, and I was thinking from the point of view of a designer researcher that also needs feedback from users to improve the products that we're doing or the understanding of the problems that we're trying to solve and all that. I was thinking that there's a bunch of user research methodologies and practices that always struggle in the same point, which is how do we make people show up so that they can use our product and give us feedback or in your case, review our drafts and give us feedback? Right? And I was commenting this the other day with someone, and all of the major minds in the field and all the books and all the references say bring Donuts as the answer to that. So basically try to move people by food and to make them show up. And it sounds like a small little thing, but I've tried it before and it worked. Right. I was in an office, and I wanted people to see the Usability testings and participate in it. And Donuts did a trick. I think the suggestion of Sandy of throwing a party is not that weird. I think maybe that can be a way. But I was listening to your testimony and I was like, okay, yeah. I mean, it's the same challenges. When we're doing research, we're worried about do we have a fair representation of the users, in your case, the citizens? Are they showing up and saying what they think about it, or are they weirded out because there's some power dynamics at play or whatever it is? Right. So there's all these concerns which are similar in that sense. And a bunch of issues in DAOs right now also revolve around this, right. A bunch of Dows have voter apathy as well, and low participation and so on. I wanted to ask you, and you mentioned this a couple of times do you think that the sexiness level of the issue is the major factor that influences people showing up and participating on it? Like you said, for the rent control issue, since it is more sexy or more on the trend right now, more people participated, do you think that's the thing that contributes more for people showing up?
[ 0:33:10.000 ---> 0:35:03.000 ] Speaker A : I do, yes. But there's different ways you can frame an issue, right, to make it more appealing or to make it more interesting. So I'm going to go back here to zoning, where this article made turned. There's a lot of things contained right here within the zoning reform. One of those is single family zoning or single family restrictions and the fact that we're changing those and would be changing those in the proposed draft, and we would be one of the few cities nationwide to do that on a citywide level. And so there's different pain points or different framing here that I can use to make the issue a little bit more appealing, and not only more appealing, but also relatable. Right. So when I say zoning reform, no one knows what I mean when I say sidewalks or when I say affordable housing, right? It's a little bit more relatable. So I think there's things that we can do around the framing of an issue to pump up the dial in terms of the sexiness and one's ability to engage on an issue. And I don't think it's on me to do that. It's on me to explain what's happening here right. To explain what zoning reform is and why it's important. I take that responsibility on 100%. But, yeah, I think it's all about the framing as well.
[ 0:35:05.000 ---> 0:35:22.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, that's also why I was asking, because if that's the driver that would lead to more people showing up, then that's what we should optimize for. And it's basically marketing in a way on how to brand this issue as something people should relate to and be concerned about, right?
[ 0:35:22.000 ---> 0:35:22.000 ] Speaker A : Yes.
[ 0:35:22.000 ---> 0:35:46.000 ] Speaker B : And I do think that the driver for that. The approach of making it relatable is interesting. And when you were describing, I was like imagining on the streets of the city an overlay of, oh, this zone is going to become this or this zone is going to become that, and something like that, so that people, when they were walking by, they would see and interact with it. Right. That could be closer to them. Sandy, go ahead.
[ 0:35:50.000 ---> 0:38:22.000 ] Speaker C : I'm also a student in public affairs, so we learn all about these policy issues from the different frames of who's creating the policy and who's interested in it. So the word that we're looking for is salient. So it's a salient issue to the public. And growing up in a small upstate New York town, very often the concerns with anything having to do with City Hall, which I don't even really remember many people ever wanting to do anything with City Hall. But when there was a concern, it was something that was affecting their livelihood, it was something that was affecting them in the short term. So helping a population also understand how politics works in the longer term and how policy initiatives now are going to impact them ten years from now. And for them to care about that requires maybe other strategic initiatives as well that maybe that involves the school system and how you're teaching the kids in school about the political affairs and things like that, or how you're engaging them in the political process as well. Because some of these kids are going to grow up and stay in the town, and they're going to be the long term people that are going to care about the long term impact. There's a small percentage, these small towns. I mean, you're closer to New York City, so you probably get more New Yorkers that are escaping the big city and it probably increases the wealth gap and maybe causes some tension with the locals that have been there for generations and then the new ones raising the pricing of housing and things like that. But those are all interesting issues that I think could lead to a greater education among. The residents as a whole as to kind of the difference between short term and long term impacts of policy and how do they want to see the city growing ten years, 20 years from now, and that kind of strategy process. I know in my town, two thirds of the people that I graduated with left town, and they just wanted to get as far away as they could and into larger cities, places with more opportunity and things like that. So it's definitely a different challenge when you're working with the smaller cities.
[ 0:38:25.000 ---> 0:39:33.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. I'll just add one of the arguments that I'm going to make here, and one of the justifications for tackling zoning reform is that if we don't do anything, your child won't have a choice. They'll have to leave. All right. Because they'll be priced out. Okay, but I love the idea. What you're describing is like a much larger ecosystem of city government educating the populace a little bit more about how it works. Right. And some of the short and long term effects and impacts of some of the things being proposed, because you're probably right, zoning reform is one thing, rent control is another thing. But I wonder if folks really understand how the governance process works. I didn't before I came onto city government, and I would consider myself to be a relatively engaged individual in Kingston beforehand.
[ 0:39:33.000 ---> 0:39:39.000 ] Speaker C : It might be interesting to form a youth council, a youth advisory council with the local schools there, actually.
[ 0:39:42.000 ---> 0:40:41.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. To educate more long term. Bardrick I have another question, which I don't think you mentioned it specifically in your presentation. First of all, what you just said, that most people have no idea how city government works. I had no idea. But what you explained, I was like, that's interesting. There's all this power dynamics in here, and it goes from here to here. That's cool. And I think it would be value add if everybody was aware of that. Obviously, one of the things that I don't think you mentioned specifically is and I was wondering is who picks who to listen? Right. So you said that on the community outreach engagements, you can do it as in, oh, hey, people, we're going to be in this place at this time show up, and whoever shows up, who gets listened to.
[ 0:40:41.000 ---> 0:40:41.000 ] Speaker A : Right.
[ 0:40:41.000 ---> 0:41:04.000 ] Speaker B : And those voice is heard, it can be more or less heard, and their comments could be included or not, and so on. But I'm specifically asking about where is the filter to which voices are heard or not, and how do you guarantee that there's enough diversity on the voices being heard?
[ 0:41:04.000 ---> 0:42:37.000 ] Speaker A : Basically, yeah, I think this is one of my key learnings regarding the whole process of zoning. The benefit for me here is that I've been doing this, and I can improve through time because there's multiple drafts, right. So I can see what worked and what didn't. And I think, again, this goes back to the intentionality of your outreach because otherwise you're just not going to get a representative voice. I mean, it's just not going to happen. You can hope that it does, but it never will. So unless you do outreach to that group, they're often just not going to be part of the voices. And there's many reasons we can't necessarily assume as to why that group isn't participating. They might not trust me and my power, my convening power, they might have been shut out of the process beforehand. Right. There's a long history of the city government doing that in its urban planning, especially for the African American community. So we can't necessarily assume as to why they're not participating. But I think through the intentionality of trying, I can bridge that gap, okay? Especially for something as important in a zoning, which I hope will correct some of the mistakes of the past that the city has made.
[ 0:42:37.000 ---> 0:43:52.000 ] Speaker B : Right? Let me add something onto that, that I think you mentioned, which is at least in my world of research, we are concerned about biases. And are we, as researchers introduced by in the things that we are researching about and how we extract insights from that and all that. And one of the best ways of accounting for that is to have a diverse research team. So if the research team is just me, that's going to be heavily biased. If it's me and another guy that looks like me, it's also going to be biased, right? And so one of the ways to try to approach that is that the research team itself should be diverse enough as well because otherwise our biases will get in the way and only listen to certain things and not all the things. I think that also impacts the convening power of the research team in this case, right. Because people that if we're a group of people that are trying to listen to what other group of people is trying to say, they maybe will not speak to us in the same way if we're these ones, right? So there's all those dynamics at play as well.
[ 0:43:52.000 ---> 0:44:47.000 ] Speaker A : You're 100% right. And in this case, our research team, if you will, is not diverse. All right. I'm a white male and I'm leading the project. So the challenge for me, and I think what I've tried to do, right, is this goes back to who does have the convening power in the community. So where possible, I've tried to bridge that gap. But that is, I think, in this project, somewhat of a flaw. And I think in general, the city government and this is probably true of many places, especially in upstate New York, it's not necessarily representative of the populace as a whole. So this is a much larger issue, of course, but an important Cindy Go.
[ 0:44:49.000 ---> 0:46:24.000 ] Speaker C : Know, it keeps bringing me back to this discussion that we have in Dow circles a lot. And I'm constantly banging the drum of being intentional about outreach and making sure people are included. Because as somebody that does have barriers to actually participating in Dows and seeing these communities just rising up and saying, no, you just have to take the initiative and get in there and start working for free or sift through your 4000 discord messages and keep up. Right, and that's kind of the idea. But that's extremely difficult to do for people that are already disadvantaged in other ways, right. If they're like single mothers or they need to work 80 hours a week just to be able to pay the rent and things like that, then they're not going to be participating, they're not going to be those loud voices. But the discussion that I often find whenever I bring this up is usually and part of the reason why I like the Rndao is because I don't get pushback when I bring this up in Rndao circles. But in other Dows, the pushback is know, this is a free market, essentially everybody's welcome. And that is not my responsibility to go out and find people to be welcome. So I guess that's a statement, but also welcome to hear your thoughts on that as well. How do we fix that?
[ 0:46:27.000 ---> 0:46:49.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I think Bartek said mean we need to be intentional about including people, right. People don't just include themselves out of nowhere, right? They just don't drop from the sky and they show up in meetings. We need to be intentional in reaching out to specific groups of people that maybe don't have as much accessibility to enter the spaces.
[ 0:46:49.000 ---> 0:47:15.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. And again, for zoning, when this is just put out there, you're going to have a group of people that are going to be engaged, right? Some of these people are going to be really for it, some are going to be really against it, but those people are not representative of the city as a whole in any what do we do now? Right?
[ 0:47:15.000 ---> 0:48:08.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, exactly. I think that one way forward is something that Sandy mentioned, like tools like Voxibrate that try to make sense of most voices. And there's some other tools. There was one tool that now I don't remember the name exactly, that we were trying to experiment in Arundao that was specifically targeted at citizen assemblies as well. And we would work with audio recordings so everybody on their mobile phone could listen to what the issue was and then reply by voice recording. And then the AI would basically create clusters of people that think this way or that way to try to get some representation of that. And I think there's a bunch of opportunities for technology to help on the issue of diversity and representation because it's more accessible than, hey, come to this meeting at this place, in this location.
[ 0:48:09.000 ---> 0:49:06.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. And this is where the old model, if you will, pre pandemic was always just one meeting in person at 06:00 right. And I think we're changing that. It's changing quite quickly in city government, especially in Kingston. And that's quite exciting to have all these different kind of formats for participation. But where we are definitely lagging, I think, is where could technology further breach the gap here? What other tools are we not even thinking of that might make the ability to add input even more seamless for that busy person? So that's the next frontier, I guess.
[ 0:49:06.000 ---> 0:49:54.000 ] Speaker B : Yes. Let's try to build things like that and to test it out and experiment with it. I think that's one of the ways forward we are about to wrap up. I think there's no more questions, and that's totally okay. This call was being recorded. We'll also post it on our YouTube channel. And for everybody here that wants to join Dao and see what we're up to and discuss these kind of issues and try to help with these kind of challenges, you're welcome to. And I dropped the link on the chat for you to do that, and I think that's it. Thank you so much, Marjak. Thank you for doing the work that you're doing. And thank you for presenting it to us. And thank you, everybody.
[ 0:49:54.000 ---> 0:49:55.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. Thank you for the discussion.
