[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:18:37.000 ] Speaker A : Explosion of traditional orgs. And the purpose of that evolution was to figure out who to blame when things go wrong. So, it started with a train wreck in western Massachusetts, october 5, 1841, and the Western Railway hired George Whistler, husband of Whistler mother, in the painting to investigate. He borrowed ideas from the Prussian military. They came up with silos, functional silos departments, chains of command, but most importantly, the world's first org chart in business. And the idea of figuring out who to blame, that was the entire purpose of traditional organizations. So now we've got orgs that are managed the same way they were as the Western Railway. We have massive anxiety. Most workers, especially knowledge workers, spend most of their time or about half their time doing work they'd rather not do that could be better done by other people. We have unhealthy competition. We're focused on pleasing a boss who's pleasing the customer. We have dehumanizing language. We're wasting people's lives with unnecessary bureaucracy. So we know all these things. And presumably these pathologies are driving us toward a new Cambrian explosion of a different kind of organization decentralized, autonomous organizations. Welcome to Web 3.0 and the Dow. So, Dows are clearly a way to transcend traditional bureaucracy, to get stuff done, to create value, to allow people to do their best work absent the chains of command and the unnecessary bureaucratic structures that impede progress. And that's all great. It does beg the question now, are there challenges with organizing and managing and maintaining Dows? Because in a Dow, we still have to work together. So we still have the challenge of intersubjectivity. We know ourselves as individuals. We know what we're interested in, what we're passionate about. We can know others to a degree, to the degree they led us, and to the degree we observe behavior. But we can't really know what's inside the mind of another person. We have to deal with intersubjectivity in order to collaborate, in order to work together. And that's a metaphysical problem. We also have to build relationships in order to collaborate and work together. And relationships are pretty fundamental to human happiness. Harvard did a study, a longitudinal study of 80 years. They found the most important factor in human happiness is actually relationship. So we've got to deal with these challenges in the Dao no differently than we would have to in a traditional organization. And so it begs the question, are we in danger of continuing to waste human capacity in the ecosystem of the Dow in the same way or in the same ways that we have been wasting human capacity in traditional organizations? Is that a danger for us? So, I would look at that question by referring to an influential essay that came out in 1970 called The Tyranny of Structurelessness. And this essay was very powerful, very influential, and it basically said that structure evolves over time and it evolves over time in any kind of ecosystem because we have the inter subjectivity that I referenced a second ago, but also because people are not identical. They have different interests, different passions, different desires, different skills, different aptitudes. So what this results in is a structure that evolves over time. And if you have an explicitly structuralist organization, that structure is masked. And so certain individuals acquire power, they acquire influence, they direct things. There is a masked structure, but it is still a structure nonetheless. And what this can evolve to is are subsets of elites, people who are considered the ins, as opposed to people who don't quite understand the structure and don't recognize the mess structure. And so they would be considered the owls and the elites become friends, they become closer, they share information more frequently, and they sort of concretize these different sorts of silos, regardless of the fact that there's an explicit abolition of structure. So is there a way out? Is there a way to deal with this and to optimize the value creation, the individual passion, unleashing, and the teamwork of a dow and sort of transcend this tyranny of structurelessness? I would argue that there is a way to do that. So the way to transcend the tyranny of structurelessness is to get explicit. And that's about getting explicit around agreements between the content of one's participation in the organization, in this case, a dow. What is the purpose for one's attachment to a dow? Why are you here? What is the content of your value creation work? What services are you providing? How are you accountable to fellow Dao members, into the group as a whole? How is authority distributed? How is it explicit? What decisions are you responsible for? Are you respecting all voices in the Dao? Does everyone have a say in matters that affect them? How is information shared widely? And do people have access to the resources they need to contribute effectively to the Tao? So these are very important questions. They can be addressed by some open patterns and practices of leadership and teamwork. And specifically, in terms of leadership, it's about switching to a pattern of leadership that's invitational. It's not coercive. It's not directive or assertive. It's about inviting people to join a vision of some desired future state or different approach or value stream or process or project, whatever it happens to be. It's about explicit agreements. So when we come into a dow, frequently, we may have a fuzzy understanding of what's going on, what we can contribute, where we can fit in to what teams we could attach ourselves. But getting very explicit about those things in terms of agreements, buying between peers inside an ecosystem is critical to getting past that tyranny of structuralness. The explicitness itself is what's important. It's about clarity of authorization. What exactly are the decision rights for which an individual can be fully accountable? Are you the decision maker for a particular decision? Are you a co decider for a decision? Are you the decision maker when the regular decision maker goes on vacation? Is decision made by consent or by consensus or by group? What is this quantum of decision making authority? Are you merely asked to provide information to a decision maker? Do you require information from another person prior to making a decision? There are lots of ways almost infinite number of ways to structure decision making authority what we call decision rights clarity of authorization, explicit clarity is crucial it's about boundary management so what is the charter of this Dow? What is its purpose? What are the principles that guide it? What are the rules that people should not violate in terms of interaction and intersubjectivity? It's about boundary management, making clear what the principles, values, mission, purpose and other aspects of the Dow really are so that people understand them and incorporate them into their daily work. It's about whole group processes, making sure that people understand what's going on to the extent possible at any given moment in time to the degree they're interested. So that people aren't siloed and prevented from having access to important information that could guide their purpose and their projects and their work inside the Dow. And it's about common knowledge, having a common language, a common understanding, a realization as a collaborative team, what we are sharing and what we are about here in terms of a common mission, explicitness, explicitness in terms of agreements is the way to transcend the tyranny of structurelessness. So how do I know this? Well, I have a story. So my story is 32 years ago, I joined an organization, Morningstar, as Daniella mentioned, and we were building a state of the art food technology factory. And it was a big project. It was $27 million project 32 years ago. Today, it would be double that. I was the financial controller. We had a small core team of 24. As we started building this project, our founder brought us together and said, can we organize around very simple core principles? We said sure. So we proposed organizing around. Don't use force and keep commitments. We said. Sure, those are the most fundamental principles of human interaction, the art of human beings, what gravity is to physics. Because if you imagine a world where everyone abandoned the use of force. We wouldn't need armies or navies or police or locks on our doors. Of course, that's not realistic, but that's not really the point. The point is, the closer we get to that ideal, state, the better off we are as human beings, the more space we open up for human happiness and inner subjectivity and teamwork and great results. The other principle is people should keep the commitments they make. Imagine a world. Where everyone kept the commitments they make, we wouldn't have breaches of contract. We'd have an amazing world. And of course, that's not realistic either, but that's not the point. The point is the closer we get to that ideal state, the better off we are as human beings and the more space we open up for happiness, harmony, prosperity and teamwork. And keeping commitments has quantifiable financial and economic value. If I am 100% reliable, my services are worth more to a Dow or any other organization than someone who's less reliable. So keeping commitments, not using force and coercion core principles at the end of that meeting, we were a self managed organization. So we went on to build the factory. July 16, we turned the factory on and we produced about 90 million pounds or 45 million industrial tomato concentrate for the world market. Changed the cost structure of our entire industry overnight. We did it without any bosses. A completely self managed organization, kind of like a Dow. Years later, we made a time lapse video of the explicit agreements that we created between peers. So this is a picture of it. And I think I've got a movie here I can show. Let me stay here. So this is a time lapse video of peers, individual peers, coming together, creating explicit agreements with each other, defining decision rights, defining personal commercial mission statements. Why are we here? Defining our services that we propose to provide? The scope and quantum of decision rights measures, metrics, how we want to work together, all those things. It's a dynamic.org chart. It's not static because we were fully autonomous. We were free to negotiate and renegotiate roles and responsibilities at all times. It never stops. A few years ago, we took as our company expanded and grew from one factory to two factories to three factories and expanded up and down the supply chain toward customers and remote warehouses across North America and toward the supply in terms of farming, harvesting, transplanting and trucking. These agreements expanded, of course. And so we took a picture of those. We had this picture taken at a computer lab at the University of California, Davis and they projected our chart in three dimensional space. We believe this is infinitely expandable, no limits. These are explicit agreements. Buy in between self managed individuals, none of whom is a boss, none of whom has any command authority whatsoever, working together around a common mission to create value for the world. I showed this chart to a biotech exec a few weeks ago and he said, you know what? You're showing me a molecule. Because in biotech, what we do is we engineer molecules. He said, we move atoms around one atom at a time. And he said, we have two goals in biotech. One is to make the connections in the molecule less toxic and we do that by adding nitrogen atoms. And the other goal is to make the covalent bonds between the atoms stronger. He said, Isn't that what we're trying to do with human organizations? We're trying to make them stronger bonds? It's exactly what we're trying to do. And so I found that a very interesting observation on the part of that particular gentleman. So we have a tool that we've used and refined over the years. A tool at Morningstar is called a colleague letter of understanding. That's just the technical name for the peer contract or peer agreement. I've been playing with a canvas that I've developed over the last five or six years, so here's a copy of that. This is now copyrighted on the Creative Commons site, and I have made it available as a downloadable graphic on my website. In my original conversations with Daniello and his colleagues, I suggested that we could use a form of this to work with DAOs and develop explicit agreements buying between peers within Dows, defining the who, what, why, when, where and how of work and to achieve that clarity and explicitness of understanding that will allow people to really do their best work. And this could be an onboarding tool because what's it like when someone joins a Dow? Are they really clear when they join the Dow about where they're going to engage and how they're going to hop onto the merry ground and start creating value? Or is it a little bit fuzzy, a little bit messy, and maybe we're wasting some human capacity there. So maybe there's an opportunity here to facilitate some peer agreements inside Dows and create environments where people get up to speed quickly and really engage with others, have great teamwork, and start creating value as soon as possible. So with that, I'll tap the brakes and we're 25 after and just happy to dialogue.
[ 0:18:38.000 ---> 0:18:52.000 ] Speaker B : Thanks a lot, Doug, for that framing. If anyone would like to comment, you can raise your hand. The button is in the middle, and I'll pass you the word ray, please, and then.
[ 0:18:56.000 ---> 0:19:35.000 ] Speaker C : Know. Thank you, Doug. Super enlightening and so grateful that you have posted stuff on Creative Commons for everyone to interact with. So, amazing question. Did you notice any interesting power dynamics in this new way of working? I'm specifically interested in new folks entering into this way of working where existing folks might be familiar. And did you notice that they might have struggled to create contracts with coworkers who had been in the system for longer?
[ 0:19:39.000 ---> 0:20:38.000 ] Speaker A : That's interesting. What I actually noticed more are new colleagues who enter the system who are brought in for a particular type of subject matter expertise, who are unable to shed their power orientation and enter a self managed ecosystem. And so what happens if they can't orient themselves relatively quickly? They try to exercise power that they don't have, and people start to tune them out. So the culture, I would say, is self healing and self correcting. So the culture cures that pretty quickly. I've seen people that tried to exercise power. They would call meetings. No one would show up because they didn't respect the person calling the meeting, and they were free to do so.
[ 0:20:42.000 ---> 0:20:52.000 ] Speaker B : Matt, you're still muted in case you're talking.
[ 0:20:52.000 ---> 0:21:11.000 ] Speaker D : Oh, sorry. With these inter partner agreements. That chart looked really big. I'm kind of curious. Did everybody have an agreement with everybody? Or was it siloed somewhat? And then what was made explicit in those agreements?
[ 0:21:13.000 ---> 0:22:29.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. No, everyone doesn't connect with everyone. So it is a completely autonomous, self managed, self selecting system. So people are hired to do certain things, of course. So if we hire, for example, an industrial electrician, they're responsible for motor control centers and wiring and motors and things like that. And so there is a subset of colleagues with whom they work most often. What we found was that people tend to self select and connect and form explicit agreements with about seven to twelve fellow colleagues with whom they interact most often. There's no limit, there's no rule that says you can't connect with more colleagues or fewer colleagues. It is completely self selecting, self regulating, but people tend to connect with seven to twelve fellow colleagues, and these are the people with whom they work most directly, and also people who may be just upstream or just downstream in the value creation process.
[ 0:22:33.000 ---> 0:22:34.000 ] Speaker C : Got it.
[ 0:22:34.000 ---> 0:22:39.000 ] Speaker D : Could you say a little bit about the form that those agreements take?
[ 0:22:40.000 ---> 0:27:30.000 ] Speaker A : Right, so the content, I think, is pretty well captured here on the canvas. So it starts with what we call Morningstar calls a personal commercial mission. This canvas is designed to be more generic and open to other companies. So it's why are you here? So why do you choose to come to work here every day? What does excellence look like in your role? How does what you do support the mission, vision, values, and purposes of the overall enterprise? Why are you here? That's the starting point. We start with why, as Simon Sinek would say, and then we go to what? What are your services? So what exactly do you do here to create value for the customer? And with respect to those services, to what degree do those services represent management? Because the reason we call self management self management is because everybody's a manager. Some people think that self management means no managers. That's quite wrong. Self management means everyone is a manager to the degree they're interested and capable. And management is not rocket science. It's just planning, organizing, controlling, selecting, coordinating. We all do that all the time in our own personal lives. So we simply extend that logic to the workplace and realize that everyone is a manager. And then for each of the services, what is the scope and quantum of one's personal decision making authority? I touched a little bit on that earlier. So are you the sole decision maker, or is there some other definition of decision making that pertains to a particular decision? Some decisions you can identify in advance, they may be continuous, recurring, ongoing decisions. The business itself or the Dow itself, really determines and defines what decisions have to be made. Then there are long term strategic decisions that can make or break an organization. And generally speaking, in a big company, those are best in a CEO or a board of directors. But all other management decisions belong in the ecosystem with one or more individuals. And so how do you make those decisions and what are they? That's really crucial to figure out. And it's a huge untapped opportunity. I mean, this is where Dows can race ahead of traditional orgs because many, if not most traditional orgs are sloppy about the way they identify decision rights. So that's a great opportunity for clarity and explicitness and then we get into measurements. So how do you know you're doing a good job if you're in a self managed.org there's no boss walking around telling you if you're doing a good job or not. You have to be able to tell yourself, so how do you do that? What kind of measures, metrics, OKRs do you employ to define your own personal delivery of value? What resources do you need? Do you need a pickup truck or a laptop or an office or what exactly do you need to fulfill your purpose? Another reason this contract works so well is because it's not just a technical services agreement, it's also a social contract. It's about how do I want people to work with me, what motivates me, who do I relate to, how do I manage conflict, how do I resolve differences of opinion? All these aspects of social interaction are also crucial to success in an ecosystem. So it's both left brained and right brained, and that's why it works. We get explicit about both the social aspects and the technical aspects. So the who, what, why, when, where and how, in a nutshell, is what the content is for these agreements.
[ 0:27:35.000 ---> 0:27:37.000 ] Speaker D : Great, thank you.
[ 0:27:39.000 ---> 0:28:14.000 ] Speaker B : Ray, checking is your point. The symbols directly on this one, by the way, for everyone who has the camera, I unfortunately cannot do it quite well for the others. But if you want to directly comment on the current thread of conversation, you can use this sign. And if you want to start a new thread of conversation, you can use this sign. So I'll try to follow the raise hand Google functionality as much as possible, but whenever I see one of these, I'll give it priority over the other. So Ray, please.
[ 0:28:15.000 ---> 0:28:32.000 ] Speaker C : Thanks Daniel. Doug, I'm looking at the canvas and in my head I initially thought, okay, this is something that an individual would do. But now I'm thinking no, it feels like there's something a group of people come together and complete as a unit. Is that the right way?
[ 0:28:33.000 ---> 0:28:40.000 ] Speaker A : Exactly right, exactly right. Pod, team, group, whatever.
[ 0:28:40.000 ---> 0:28:47.000 ] Speaker C : How do those teams form? Did you notice any trends in how those teams formed?
[ 0:28:49.000 ---> 0:29:43.000 ] Speaker A : Well, it's interesting. In a continuous flow process manufacturer like Morningstar, it's somewhat defined by the process itself. So there are discrete process elements where groups of people naturally work together to create a product for sale. So in that kind of an.org, it's a little bit predefined in a Dow or consultancy or a law firm or some other kind of people would have to think through, okay, how are we going to come together to form these agreements and what does a Pod definition look like in this kind of an.org? So that's going to be one of the challenges for sure.
[ 0:29:48.000 ---> 0:29:50.000 ] Speaker B : Paolo and then I'll go.
[ 0:29:55.000 ---> 0:30:26.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you so much for presenting this. First of all, I'm curious about how does this influence compensation of people? And this is always the hard question, I guess, but can you share any learnings on how maybe the representation, the influence, the amount of decision rights, whatever it is that influences the compensation of people in the organization?
[ 0:30:28.000 ---> 0:35:13.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. Compensation is a continuous slow manufacturer to Dow Graining Software, for example, but hired initially for their subject matter expertise into a particular geographic location. And so in that case, we know almost exactly what the compensation should be to attract a particular level of talent to this geographic location. Now, people are hired at that level plus a premium, and the premium represents the fact that and that premium could be ten or 15%, representing the fact that every single person is a manager. So an industrial electrician is not just hired to work on electricity. They're involved in budgeting and hiring and strategy and coordination and all the elements of traditional management. Why? Because there are no managers. They are responsible. And in this case, in Morningstars case, people, individual mechanics, for example, could be responsible as individuals for $15 to $20 million worth of equipment, all aspects, including strategy, which is in some cases a much greater quantum of leadership responsibility than a CEO of a small company. And many of them have only a high school diploma, but they're the best in the world at what they do, which is a very narrow specialty. So they're hired at this specific level. At the end of every year, each geographic location forms a compensation committee. It's a representative committee composed of representatives from all aspects of the organization. So they're representatives from finance and distribution and marketing and sales and admin and production and all the rest. And they get together as a representative committee, and they look at the results of each and every individual associated with that location. And if an individual contributor wants by the US. Bureau of Labor Statistics, then they have to make a business case for it, a bona fide, business school type business case, and sell it to the committee. And they can get help with that. I mean, there are lots of finance colleagues who are happy to help out with that and create a business case. And so then it's a negotiation. So they enter into a negotiation with the committee, and sometimes the committee accepts the business case outright. Sometimes they negotiate a lower increase. Sometimes they negotiate down to where the cost of living increase is sometimes the committee gives people increases that they haven't asked for because sometimes people are too modest about their own achievements and accomplishments and value creation. So it's kind of a beautiful negotiation. It happens once a year. And negotiation is also how these peer agreements are formed in the first place. These are the results of negotiation. So it's about agency on the part of individuals, autonomy, freedom. There are no inherent barriers in this network. Anyone can talk to anyone else about anything at any time. And so it's about freedom to do one's best work. I'd like to think that if a giant, noisy, dusty, loud, sprawling manufacturing agricultural facility can figure out how to organize like a neural network, I'd really like to think that a dow could, too.
[ 0:35:18.000 ---> 0:35:36.000 ] Speaker E : Yeah, I also hope so. Can I just follow up with a couple of questions? Which is is the committee elected in any way, or is it appointed or chosen by whatever mechanism? And does it fire people?
[ 0:35:40.000 ---> 0:35:45.000 ] Speaker A : Does the committee fire people from the committee, you mean? Or can people be fired in general.
[ 0:35:45.000 ---> 0:35:46.000 ] Speaker E : Or how people are fired?
[ 0:35:46.000 ---> 0:37:17.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, great. Two questions. So the committee three factories the three factories select committee members in completely different ways. I think one factory asks for volunteers. One factory, I think, has elections. I think the other factory gave decision rights to one person to appoint members. So whatever works, right? And then in terms of firing so recall the first principle of self management. No use of force. No, that means no caution. No use of force means zero, zero command authority. That means no one has any authority to tell another person to start doing X and stop doing Y. It means no one has any authority to unilaterally terminate the employment of another person. Everything is accomplished by request and response. Now, anyone can make a request of anyone else at any time, and the person of whom a request is made has a professional obligation to respond to the request. But it is a request only. No one can fire anyone else.
[ 0:37:24.000 ---> 0:37:34.000 ] Speaker E : I'm tempted to ask I'm tempted to ask if there was any fires firings and if people had been requested to.
[ 0:37:37.000 ---> 0:40:27.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, absolutely. Because anyone can make a request of anyone else. If I, as a colleague, observe unethical behavior or poor performance to the point of destructive performance or a combination thereof, I can ask another person to leave. And I have. And other people have as well. So there is a process called gaining agreement. And so if the person agrees with the request and that's happened. I mean, people have been asked to leave, and they said, yeah, you're right. I should leave. My head's not in this anymore. Bye. I'm leaving. Or they can negotiate some third option that neither party had proposed initially. So I see someone engaged in an unsafe act at work. I may ask them to leave, and they may say, well, I made a mistake, but could I take a safety class instead and prove that I've learned my lesson? Okay, I might agree to that. Now, if I think the person really should leave and the person declines my request to leave, and I still believe in my request, I can escalate the request. So we'll bring in a third party mediator, could be any other colleague still everything's at the colleague level. Their job is just to listen to both sides offer their best advice. If at the end of that process I still believe in the request, the person still disagrees with the request, then I can escalate it again. I can escalate it to a panel of colleagues and their job is the same, identical to the initial third party colleague, to listen to both sides and offer their best advice. And if at the end of that process I still believe in the request and the person declines the request, then I can escalate it to the final step, which is binding arbitration. So what this results in is what we call exhaustive due process. It means no one can be railroaded. It is a big damper on interpersonal politics and destructive interpersonal conflict. It's not easy to get rid of people, but it's absolutely possible to exit people that need to leave. And that happens every year, probably several times a year.
[ 0:40:31.000 ---> 0:41:19.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you very much. Doug, I'm going to build on a question that Ray put in the chat where he was asking if the nodes individual that you were displaying, whether they were teams and perhaps, I guess I'm feeling some confusion as to how much the agreements work between individuals. Let's say Mire and Paolo, we are part of two different teams in different configurations. So do we make the agreements one on one or do we make it between the three of and that's kind of, I guess a little bit the confusion that I have perhaps also what Ray is touching upon of how does this work and also related to the resources.
[ 0:41:22.000 ---> 0:43:26.000 ] Speaker A : So the organization itself and its culture will dictate what makes sense in terms of relatedness of teams. I can tell you at Morningstar that this chart, there are a lot of teams in this chart that are not represented on this chart. So there are for example, councils, packaging councils, and agricultural councils, and legal councils, and human resources councils and various groups that are just not represented on the chart because that chart represents individual connections between people who work most closely together. So those teams have agreements, team agreements within their teams in addition to the colleague letter of understanding, those are our team agreements. And then teams can have agreements with other teams, so we can have service level agreements buy in between teams. So there are no limits to the kinds of agreements and the number of team agreements that you can institute in this ecosystem. It's really whatever makes sense. And if you have two teams and they need to come to an agreement, it's not always necessary to have all team members of both teams together to hammer out the agreement. A team can designate one person, invest that person with decision rights to reach a reasonable agreement with another team or other teams. So kind of the fluidity of this is about the agency and autonomy and freedom that people have to self organize in ways that make sense for whatever their happens to be. Thank you.
[ 0:43:28.000 ---> 0:43:36.000 ] Speaker B : Stephen was asking, are there copies of governance doc we can review, or what the process for creating governance procedures and documents?
[ 0:43:38.000 ---> 0:45:49.000 ] Speaker A : So, the governance document started, it was proposed in March of 1990, 32 years ago. It was two pages. It included the principles and the gaining agreement process that I outlined and a few other points. The proposal or the changes in governance have been extremely minor over the course of 32 years, kind of relying on Dhawk's principle. So, Dhawk was the founder of Visa. He said that complex rules cause simple, stupid behavior. Simple rules allow for complex, intelligent behavior. So really, the real governance of Morning Star is embedded in those two principles that I articulated. Don't use force and keep commitments. Now, the gaining agreement process, because people will have conflict and differences of opinion, there must be a way to resolve those. We've tweaked that over the years. And the way that happens is that one or more people will propose a change, and then everyone gets to review the change and approve the change. And so it's not just promulgated or imposed on the organization. It's like, well, we're thinking about increasing the size of the mediation panel in the gaining agreement process from seven to ten. What do you think? Okay. And people get a chance to weigh in on that. But governance, bedrock governance, is those two principles. And the other elements of that gaining agreement, very little change. But when it does change, it's because of widespread input from everyone.
[ 0:45:52.000 ---> 0:45:54.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you very much. Andrea?
[ 0:46:00.000 ---> 0:46:28.000 ] Speaker F : Yes, Doug? There was a comment around what's the difference between the self organizing canvas or self management canvas? And, like, a business canvas that is out there, which you and I have talked about before, I thought it'd be helpful for the group to just understand the difference between self management canvas and something a traditional top down could fill out in line with the business canvas.
[ 0:46:30.000 ---> 0:47:18.000 ] Speaker A : Right. So the one that comes to mind is the business model canvas. The famous one. The self management canvas is really about how we work together. The business model canvas, as I recall, has to do a lot with customers and markets and strategy, and how do you ensure financial and economic success of your business? This really doesn't address that at all. This is about who we work with, how we work together, and how we allocate our roles and responsibilities and decision making in a nutshell.
[ 0:47:21.000 ---> 0:47:22.000 ] Speaker B : Matt?
[ 0:47:23.000 ---> 0:47:24.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah.
[ 0:47:24.000 ---> 0:48:01.000 ] Speaker D : I'm curious about you talked about being explicit about who can make decisions and there were a lot of little variations on types of decisions and decision theory. And I'm thinking about with an existing organization where those kinds of it's like implicit and not well defined but maybe understood. Would you have any suggestions for extracting and documenting those? Where would you start with trying to become explicit about decisions?
[ 0:48:02.000 ---> 0:49:41.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, I'd start with a team and I would have a little small group brainstorm about what are the important decisions that we make here. I'd try to identify them and then I'd take them, maybe rank them with dot voting and prioritize them and then go down the list and say, well, who should make this decision and how should they make it? And I would have some dialogue around every major decision. Try and extract from people who should make it and how. There's a nice exercise from Jurgen Appello called delegation poker. I think you can adapt that to decision rights poker and figure out do we make it by consent, by consensus? We have co decision makers, do we need information from others first? Do we make it and then inform what's the sequence of events? There are so many ways to make decisions and if people don't agree on those ways, that's a big source of conflict. And power players, people bureaucrats that like to play power politics, they love the ambiguity because then they can weigh in on everything and it makes them feel good, but it's not great for getting stuff done.
[ 0:49:42.000 ---> 0:50:19.000 ] Speaker D : Yeah. It occurs to me that if I had a small group to decide on decisions, I would then need everybody to agree that my decision about decisions is the decision and then watching if somebody decides. We're getting into power and authority conversation here. I guess you have a way to get buy in with everybody in the group once you've articulated some of these things or is it still a consensus model in the end? Everybody has to agree before this stuff becomes solid.
[ 0:50:21.000 ---> 0:51:04.000 ] Speaker A : No, it shouldn't be a consensus model necessarily. I mean, it could be if that makes sense, but the fastest way to make a decision is for one person to just make the decision. You have one brain and neurons and they make the decision and that's the most efficient way to make it. But it may not be the best way depending on the decision. So that's why you probably need a facilitated conversation with some brainstorming and some dialogue to get to the nub of those questions. Thanks, Paolo.
[ 0:51:08.000 ---> 0:51:43.000 ] Speaker E : Yeah, I mean, it looks like we are almost out of time. So what I have to ask assumes that we maybe were born with this mindset of being self managed, but we're drilled down and hammered down traditional corporate culture into us. And my question is, do you have tips for us to unlearn top down management and start to be open to self management.
[ 0:51:45.000 ---> 0:51:51.000 ] Speaker A : Sorry, Paulo, my computer glitched a little bit on the last part of your question. What was that again?
[ 0:51:52.000 ---> 0:52:03.000 ] Speaker E : If you have tips for us to unlearn top down management and start to be open to learn self management, well.
[ 0:52:05.000 ---> 0:53:32.000 ] Speaker A : One company I worked with, they started a book club so you could start a virtual book club and get a hold of some great books. So humanocracy. Gary Hamill and Mikhaila Zanini, they make a powerful case for self management. I read philosophy, so I read Peter Block and Peter Kestenbaum. They wrote a great book called Freedom and Accountability at Work. That's this one right here. Because ultimately, it's really philosophy at the heart of this. What does it mean to be a successful Dow? What does it mean to be a successful human being? What does it mean to be happy? Those are big questions that people, I hope, start asking because this is bigger than just making more money or doing better business or improving a product or a service. We're trying to create a better world, I'd like to think. So read some of these important books. Have fun with that. That's a good way to start.
[ 0:53:33.000 ---> 0:53:42.000 ] Speaker F : Another reminder of Barry O'Reilly's book Doug called unlearn. So that's one other book we'd recommend.
[ 0:53:43.000 ---> 0:53:46.000 ] Speaker A : Perfect. Thank you.
[ 0:53:47.000 ---> 0:53:47.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you.
[ 0:53:48.000 ---> 0:55:35.000 ] Speaker B : Well, thank you, everyone, for participating. This has been a very stimulating conversation. Thanks a lot, Doug, for sharing all your knowledge and wisdom. And also for everyone else who has chipped in and enriched this conversation. It's been a pleasure. I'm living in the chat. We have another event that maybe some of you might be interested with. Graham Spencer, next week, he wrote about anti captures and anti capture. So how DAOs can perhaps be an organizational form that resists capture of interest by an elite or a small group that essentially takes power away from the others to use it for their selfish benefit rather than the good of the collective. So he's going to be sharing about a framework, like a bit of a theoretical framework and a discussion that we have around to. I also share the Arendelle Twitter, where we'll be sharing a little bit more about these things and some other stuff that we're doing. And Doug, I don't know if you would accept to perhaps join in our discord. I can share you the link and I'll put it here. I'm going to share the five minute summary that we have on our endow for those who are not familiar. But at the bottom of this document, you can find a link to join the discord. And there in our Learning and Discussion Channel, we can continue the conversation. Doug, of course, you've been already very generous with your time, so it's completely optional. But for certainly I'll be there and I have a few more things to discuss now we need to stop. We have another workshop starting and our time is up. But thanks again, everyone. This has been fantastic. And have a lovely rest of the day, you all.
[ 0:55:36.000 ---> 0:55:37.000 ] Speaker A : Bye. Thanks, Daniel.
[ 0:55:37.000 ---> 0:55:38.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you.
[ 0:55:40.000 ---> 0:55:41.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you.
