[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:10:27.000 ] Speaker A : There are at least three ways that philosophy can ruin your sex life. Welcome to Park Notes. I'm Parker Settle Case, and this is a channel where we lure you into deeper philosophical and theological ideas. Now, it already worked because you clicked this video. You probably clicked it because you saw sex in the title. Was that clickbaity? Yeah, maybe a little bit. But this isn't clickbait because I'm actually going to deliver on it. So in this video, I'm going to cover three ways I think philosophy can ruin and maybe should ruin your sex life. And then I will give you my two favorite intro to philosophy books so you can start using philosophy to ruin your sex lives. Let's jump right in. The first way that philosophy can ruin your sex life is by thinking more philosophically. Now, what do I mean by sex life here? I mean the, like, promiscuous, the hookup culture, sex life. Just any kind of sex life that treats persons as objects, that treats subjects as objects, that treats persons as things, just tools for your own personal sexual gratification. Now, that's a type of sex life I think should be destroyed, diminished, wrecked by philosophy. So I hope that you start studying philosophy, and I hope it ruins your sex life if your sex life consists in treating others like things instead of persons. So maybe one way to do this is studying personalism, the philosophy of personalism. This is a huge, broad camp. There are a lot of personalists. The most famous, perhaps, is Martin Luther King, who finds himself in the Boston school of personalism. But there's also personal idealism. There's non idealistic views of personalism. It's a broad camp. I'm going to link the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy Journal article on Personalism in the Description. So go check that out. It's an amazing article. It's great. Personalism is really cool. There's going to be some who really hate it. Yes, there are some problems depending on which personalism you have in mind, but that's one way that you can ruin your sex life by studying phIlosophy. And that's a really good thing. I think you ought to do that. Another way would be looking at Kantian ethics. There's a similar move here where Kant said, hey, persons ought to be ends in and of themselves and never a means to an end. You should never use a person like a thing in order to get something else. Don't use them as a means because they are an end in and of themselves. So if you became a Kantian in your ethics, or maybe you just appropriate that one principle from Kantian ethics, then that's going to ruin your sex life. If you're treating people like things, like, just like masturbation machines or something, right? That's going to stop you from doing that. I think that's a good thing. Another way, maybe you start studying, like, philosophy of religion, and you start getting into literature on the Imago day, the image of God, and you start to see people not just as biological meatbags, like people always say, but as image bearers of the creator God. That's a pretty big deal. I think if you start shifting your perspective on what people are and the ontology of persons, that's going to be a really helpful tool for you to start seeing people as persons and not things. Another one, maybe philosophy of mine. Maybe you get into consciousness and you realize, hey, other people are conscious beings like me, and you can develop a little bit of empathy. I think that's a really good thing. Now, not all philosophies are created equal. And there's, like, existentialism, which I don't think is the most amazing philosophy. But even an existentialist who says existence precedes essence, that is, you exist first, and then you start developing and shaping your own essence through your choices. And even an existentialist could be like, hey, yeah, I'm creating myself and I'm creating my essence, but so is he, so is she. Maybe I ought not use her or him as a means to an end, like in the Kantian way. Maybe I shouldn't do that. Why? Because maybe I'll be malforming them and shaping them into, like, a monstrous type of thing. Maybe if I don't want to be a monster myself, I shouldn't treat other people as if they're things and maybe they won't treat me like I'm things. And maybe we can both start building our own essence in a more positive way that helps us all flourish. I don't know. Existentialists are weird. If you guys are in the comment section, let me know. Or maybe you even go in deep on, like, analytic philosophy, and you start going into origin essentialism and you go into metaphysical modality, things that they're stronger than physical necessity, but they're not quite, like, logical necessity. But it's like, what's metaphysical necessity? Maybe you start studying how a rock can't be all blue and all green all over stuff like that, where it's like, is that a logical contradiction? It seems like it's a metaphysical one. Maybe you start studying origin essentialism. Would I be me if I didn't have the same origins that gave rise to me. Could I still be Parker if I didn't have the parents that I had? Like, what is my essence? Does it transcend my origins? Maybe you start thinking about this, and you realize that person that you're objectifying, that you're turning into an object instead of a subject. Hey, they have parents as well. These are just some ways that I think philosophy can help you see other people as persons and not objects. So if your sex life consists in, like, a hookup culture where you're using people as things, man, I hope philosophy ruins your sex life. So the first way is thinking more philosophically. The second way is thinking too philosophically. Now, this is when you start studying more and more philosophy, and you just can't turn it off. And so maybe you start studying phenomenology, and you say, I want to attend to my phenomenal consciousness. The what? It's likeness of my conscious experience. And maybe I want to attend to my sexual desires. I don't know. That might ruin things for you. Because these experiences may be unanalyzable, but maybe they also just resist being analyzed such that when you start analyzing them, the moment leaves. Right. Like, I'm going to start reflecting on this. Maybe you're eating, like, cheesecake, and you're like, what is it like to eat cheesecake? And you start focusing on it, and it ruins the experience. That's as deep as I'm going to go, because I don't want to be licentious or anything like that. I don't want to be too sexually suggestive or anything like that. But when you attend to the experience while you're having the experience, it can totally ruin the experience. I'll just leave it at that. This is getting kind of weird, right? But you got to learn to turn it off. Romance and phenomenological philosophy don't go hand in hand all that well. So another way that you can ruin your sex life through philosophy is by not turning off the philosophical switch. Don't overthink life when you're in situations wherein thinking is not going to be beneficial for you. Now, the third way to ruin your sex life through philosophy is to talk about philosophy. Just mention anything that I've brought up in this video at all to your spouse and see how that goes. Philosophical jargon does not make good pillow talk, so that's as far as I'll go. Just take my advice on that. Now, what if you want to start learning philosophy so you can ruin your sex life? Whether it's a bad one or a good one. I hope if you're married, your spouse doesn't hate me for ruining your sex life. But I hope if you are in the hookup culture, I hope that your sex life gets ruined. I hope that you start studying philosophy and you're not able to treat people like things any longer. That would be awesome. So how do we go about doing that if you've never studied philosophy before? I've got two book recommendations for you. The first one is from Michael Humor. Michael Humor is the man. So I have a whole podcast channel here. I'll link that in the description. He's been on my podcast a bunch. He's a very good philosopher. Why is he so good? Well, he's really, like, analytical and rigorous, and he makes good arguments, but he also talks about everything. He hasn't, like, Hyper focused into one subdiscipline in phIlosophy. He talks all across the philosophical spectrum. It's really, really good. So this Book is KnoWLedge, reality, and vAlue. It's a self published book by him. It's endorsed by such luminaries as Plato, who said, my work is a series of footnotes to Mike humor, and Aristotle, who says, this book is way better than my lecture notes, which is just. Man, amazing endorsements there. When you self publish, you get to write Whatever you want on the back. That one's for Free. So knowledge, reality, and value, a mostly common sense guide to philosophy. I commend this Book. It's pretty cheap. It's an Amazing IntRO to PhIloSophy. Humor does a great job of writing and sucking you in, deep, into deep philosophical waters, and you don't even recognize it. You were just reading a simple intro, and then here you are into the cutting edge work. Here's Number one. Number two might be surprising to some of the philosophers who are listening, but Roger Scrutin's modern philosophy is the second book that I commend. It's so, so good. I love Roger Scrutin. I know a lot of People kind of beef with him. But this book is an amazing overview of the history of philosophy. But it's not Just a History of Ideas. He gives a Broad Stroke, history of philosophy, but he dives in deep to analytic philosophy, phenomenology, continental phIlosophy. So I really like it Because Everything's on the table. There's all these different distinctions in the history of philosophy, but he doesn't skip any. He just covers it and then goes in Deep on it. So if you want to become an expert in philosophy, here are two books that I commend to you. They will help you think more philosophically. I hope that they help you Destroy your sex Life. If your sex life involves treating persons as things, subjects as objects, and man, just be careful when you use philosophical jargon. Just time it. Well, I'll leave it there. Okay, but I want to hear from you Guys. What is your favorite intro to philosophy book? What's your favorite philosophy book in general, and what book has helped you see people as persons? What's helped you view people as intrinsically valuable? Let me know in the comments and maybe we can get a whole list of good books for people to start learning philosophy. If you guys like this video, go ahead and leave me a like, if you learned something, then go ahead and leave me a comment and then check the description for a bunch of links on personalism, Kantian ethics, ways I think we can go about learning to view people as they truly are. All right, peace. Bye.
