[ 0:00:02.000 ---> 0:00:09.000 ] Speaker A : Hi, everyone. Welcome to the first YC Healthcare and Biosummit. I'm Kat Minyalik.
[ 0:00:09.000 ---> 0:00:09.000 ] Speaker B : Whoo. Yeah.
[ 0:00:09.000 ---> 0:01:25.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. I'm Kat Minyalik. I'm head of outreach at YC, and I will be your MC today. I'm super excited to see you all here and in person. And I wanted to mention, before we get started, if you will be tweeting or sharing about any of your thoughts about the panels or talks, feel free to tag us using hashtag YC Bio or at Y Combinator so we can follow along. All right, so I am delighted for you to meet Serbi Sarna. She's going to be kicking things off, and you'll be hearing from her throughout the day. Serbi is a group partner at Y Combinator, and she works most closely with the bio and healthcare companies that go through our program. So before joining us at YC, Serbi was the founder and CEO of Envision Medical. They addressed the early detection of ovarian cancer, and the company was sold to Boston Scientific for 275,000,000. So, Serbi has a really strong vision of what the future of biotech startups will look like, which you'll hear about later today. And she has an incredible track record of helping early stage biocompanies. So I hope you all get a chance to meet her, if you haven't already. All right, let's welcome Serby to the stage.
[ 0:01:32.000 ---> 0:04:30.000 ] Speaker B : Hi, everybody, and welcome to the inaugural YC health and Bio summit. I cannot tell you how excited I am to be here with all of you today, and I know how busy you are. Thank you for carving time out of your schedules. And a special shout out and warm welcome to our YC Alum, who showed up here today in more than 100 strong welcome home, guys. So today in the audience, we have entrepreneurs and innovators, angel investors, venture capitalists, doctors, other health companies, and these are incredibly important elements of our bio and healthcare ecosystem. But what really brings us all together today? Why did we choose the industries we've devoted our lives to? It's because we were hoping for the chance, the possibility to better the condition of our most important stakeholders. Our patients, our Earth, and the future health of our children. At a time where there are forces trying to slash access to healthcare, why see funds and support entrepreneurs and companies creating new channels for patients? At a time where environmental laws and protection is being slashed, why see funds and support companies that are creating a cleaner, greener future? We want to help you find the unfindable cancer early, to treat the untreatable. Because when it comes to bio, when it comes to healthcare, you're not just making something people want. You're making something people need. So, today's conference is geared toward budding entrepreneurs or people who are in the audience who are thinking about starting a healthcare or bio based company. We want you to know that you can absolutely be part of this movement, because we believe that the best innovation, the most valuable innovation comes from companies which are founder led. And yes, that is true in the sciences as well. We believe in founder led biotech. We know and we have seen time and time again that when you arm the right entrepreneurs with the right guidance and skill set right out of the gate, they can make a real impact, a real positive difference in this world. So welcome today. I hope that you enjoy yourself. I hope you have some fun and you learn something. And most importantly, I hope you have the chance to mingle with like minded peers. So with that, let's get this party started. Thank you, guys. Welcome.
