[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:00:09.000 ] Speaker A : What was your. Your big break as an actor? Do you think it was the Walking Dead? Was that was the big one? Yeah. I mean, you were fucking great in that.
[ 0:00:09.000 ---> 0:00:09.000 ] Speaker B : Oh, thanks.
[ 0:00:09.000 ---> 0:00:16.000 ] Speaker A : You played such a good creep. Such an asshole, right? Yeah, but it was so believable. Like, all of it was so believable.
[ 0:00:16.000 ---> 0:00:17.000 ] Speaker B : Thanks, man.
[ 0:00:17.000 ---> 0:00:17.000 ] Speaker A : It was really good.
[ 0:00:17.000 ---> 0:01:44.000 ] Speaker B : Thanks. I mean, I think that it was the. For me, it was the perfect. The perfect role at the perfect time in my life. These things just, like, they really married each other. I'd been busting my ass for about ten years before that and just failing miserably. I think a lot of people think that you just, like, I'd been doing it for a long time, but I was still really a pretty big fuck up, Joe. I was hitting brick wall after brick wall in my life. I was kind of a shitbag. I wasn't a good boyfriend. I was still having episodes of Violence on the street. I was still getting into street fights, still getting into trouble. I was drinking way too much. On July 3, 2009, I lived in Venice Beach. And every July 4, we had, like, a really big July 4 party. And I was walking my dogs in Venice beach, and I stopped because I saw there's like a big house party. It was this thing called First Fridays in Venice where people could drink on the street. And I saw this older couple, and they were playing the diggeradoo. You know the diggeradoos? Okay, so they're playing.
[ 0:01:45.000 ---> 0:01:47.000 ] Speaker A : That's pretty good, bro. Yeah.
[ 0:01:47.000 ---> 0:07:50.000 ] Speaker B : So they were playing the diggeradoo, and they were probably like, couple in their sixty S. And I saw this one guy outside the party who was kind of like a ringleader. He was dancing around, drinking 40s. They kind of like, want to be tough guys. And the guy went over to the woman who was playing the diggeradoo, and he lifted it up and he put it on his crotch so it looked like this old woman was, like, blowing his crotch. And I remember just looking at her husband, and he was just, like, broken. And I saw this couple, they had to pack their stuff up, and it was just like. And I don't know, Joe. There was something about that I was drawn to. I was supposed to see it that day, and I saw red. And right at that point, that same guy, he called my dog over. My dogs are super well trained. And I walked them. They weren't on their leash. And there's one dog named Boss, this great pit bull, and he's like, oh, my gosh, look at that dog. We were probably 50 yards away, and he called the dog over, and boss went over to him, and the guy's like, pet my dog and kind of like roughing up my dog a little bit, just kind of like manhandle him because he's a big pit bull, whatever it was. And I called my dog back, and the guy held onto him and didn't let him come back to me. And again, man, some part of me wanted this to kind of happen. And I went over to him and I grabbed my dog, and I was like, boss, let's go. And I pulled my dog away, and he was like, hey, man, get off my dog. And one thing kind of led to another, but I started to walk away, and him and a couple of his friends started to follow me, and he pushed me in the back, and I turned around, and I hit him with a right hand, and he got knocked out standing up, and he fell down, and he cracked his head on the pavement. And his friends all kind of jumped on me. I tried to put my back against a tree and do what I could, but they started to get the better of me. Police came and long story fucking long, you don't look like he wasn't waking up. And they were taking him away. I was, like, sitting there handcuffed to the side. Some friends of mine came. I got them to get my dogs out of there, but I'm on the side. There's police everywhere. People are like, from that party, pouring beers on my head, and I'm just kind of sitting there. And then they took me down to Pacific Division, and the guy still wasn't waking up. And I'd gotten in trouble in the past in Washington. The police were just saying, like, hey, man, if he doesn't wake up, that's kind of that. And I was handcuffed to this bench in the Pacific division. And I remember just really having to take a piss, and nobody was letting me. And they were kind of giving me shit about what's going to happen if this guy doesn't wake up. And I remember sitting there on that bench that if this guy doesn't wake up and I'm going in that direction now, I knew, and it was as clear as any thought I've ever felt, that I was going to have to sort of get in touch. I was going to have to be the devil if I was going that route. All this acting shit, all this friends and fun, it's over. I got to go be the worst and most vicious part of myself if I'm going through that door. And it wasn't like, something of, like, trying to steal myself or act like I'm nothing special. But I was as sure, if anything, that that's what needed to happen. And it was clear. And I wasn't scared. I just knew it. But then my next thought, I just looked up and I was like, but if you can just get me out of this. And I remember just saying it, if you can just get me out of this, I swear to you, like, I am done. Like, I am done. And I will dedicate my life to my lady. I will dedicate my life to my work. And I will dedicate my life to you. And I will dedicate my life to service. Like, I will dedicate my life. And literally, man, I'm not trying to. 1 second later, cop came by and said, the guy woke up, and, man, that could have gone anyway. And I know again, you asked me about Walking Dead, but literally one year after that, July 3, 2010, I was on set of my first season of Walking Dead. Wow. And not drinking, focused, engaged to be married, had my first kid on season two. And again, man, I'm so profoundly humbled by that and grateful for that. So grateful for it. But I'm also aware of how unfair it is that so many people don't get that shot and it doesn't work out that way. But, yeah, getting to then kind of play a role like that that had a real beginning, middle, and end kind of, like, built in. And at a time in my life where I just totally stripped all the fat out of my life, the people I was hanging out with, the way I was behaving, I got ridiculously disciplined pretty much about every part of my lifE. So, yeah, sorry, it's such a grandiose answer, but it's walking dead. But it was also that time at walking Dead and the people that I was around and what that all meant. But, yeah, my life completely and utterly changed there. And I think the sad thing is, man, it's not like that was the first time that happened. I mean, I had so many times where I should have learned that lesson.
