[ 0:00:09.000 ---> 0:07:48.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, today I'll be talking about what else I do and mainly relates to my scientific work that I do as part of the PhD program that I'm currently completing. And some of this work has already been published. Other work that I'll share some about is still in progress and will be published soon. And it all relates to studying the spontaneous activity in human brain organoids to better understand information processing in the brain at a circuit level and what brain organoids are. We'll get into that. And in the end I will also link some of the stuff that I do with my research to Dows and online communities to make it clear why I'm also interested in that. Because at first sight it seems like something totally different. And so we'll be covering some neuroscience, some stem cell biology, some artificial intelligence, some network science, biomimicry and more. If you have any questions at the end, we'll have some time for questions. If it's really pressing, you can also interrupt me. But yeah, I think mainly focusing for questions in the end. So in my lab we work with human brain organoids. And an organoid is an organ like tissue that is grown in the lab. And so it's three dimensional and it contains of different cell types that are all organ specific and it's made from stem cells and it fully self organizes into the final structure. So you start with a pluripotent stem cell and it's a stem cell that can still develop into anything. And you give them then signaling molecules that kind of resemble the molecules that we receive if it would be a stem cell and a fetus that develops into a certain organ. And then you kind of slowly grow organ like tissue in a dish and you can do with all kinds of different organs. So you have like kidney and retina and stomach and the brain and many more things. And we focus on brain organoids in our research. Growing these takes quite some time. Like early on you just have some human embryotic stem cells and then you give them the right molecules so that they start to differentiate and you put them in matri gel, which allows them to grow into three D. And then after a month or two months, it's a couple of millimeters in diameter. So you could see this is like about the size of an uncooked lentil. And that contains about one to 2 million cells, some of which are neurons, but also other brain cells like estrocytes. And then when they're an age of like four to twelve months old, we do experiments on them. And these are all kinds of experiments. Some of them look at what types of cells there are and making some pictures of that and others are electrophysiology recordings. And that's my main focus. And these are recordings of the neural activity that is spontaneously present in these organoids. So out of nowhere, these organoids start to send signals to each other, the neurons in these organoids. And that's what I studied. Here are some pictures and I won't go into the details but these are pictures made with fluorescent labels of the organoids. Nice that you can join the call too. Bezat as a really quick summary of what I just mentioned in my last slides is that I work with organoids. And organoids are organ like tissue that is grown in the lab from stem cells. So you take a stem cell and you give it signaling molecules as if it's like a fetus that is being developed so that it turns into a specific type of organ. And we make brain organoids. So I study brain organoids so you could almost see it as mini brains, although that's not really an accepted term that are grown in the lab. And these stem cells, we just get them from either patients or from skin cells. We don't use fetuses or something like that. And yeah, we make these brain organoids from that. And these are some pictures where we label specific cell types. So you see some estrocytes here in B you see long axons. So these are part of a neuron and they cover like multiple hundreds of micrometers. So these are really long covering one side of the organoid all the way to the other. And these are also pictures of all kinds of subtypes of neurons. Special interneurons to really show that these organoids are much more closely resembling an actual brain than the types of cultures that people have been making so far. And that's likely thanks to the fact that these can go into 3D instead of just a layer of cells. And so what I mainly focus on is electrophysiology recordings. So I mentioned that these organoids, they are spontaneously active and so the neurons are sending signals to each other without us stimulating them or giving them any input and we study that. So here's an example of an organoid embedded in some agaros that we use to make slices. And on the sides you see fingers to give you an idea about the size of such an organoid. And we make small slices of them. We place those on arrays with electrodes that we can use to record the activity. And these arrays are super dense so we only have like 8 sensing area. So up here you see a skill bar and this gray rectangles where we have our electrodes. But in that space we have 26.4 thousand electrodes and out of that we can sample just over 1000 simultaneously. And you have the distance between the electrodes is only 17 and a half micrometers. So that is about a third of a thickness of a human hair. That's the distance between two different electrodes. And that allows us to measure the activity of the neurons with multiple electrodes. So we have a higher resolution than single neurons. And with these electrodes we can measure both the local field potential. So these are the brainwaves, for instance. In this example, you see the theta waves and these are like the slower oscillations, but we can also measure the spikes. These are the action potentials. So they happen in a very short within two milliseconds, you have a spike happening. And we can detect that signal as well because we have a pretty high sampling rate. And let's see, go to the next slide. There we go. So this is an example of a little piece on our array. So every line is one electrode and it reports the signals from a few different neurons that are located. And so one squiggle is the signal from an action potential measured by that electrode for a neuron. And it's to show basically can you.
[ 0:07:48.000 ---> 0:07:50.000 ] Speaker B : Repeat what any squiggle is?
[ 0:07:50.000 ---> 0:12:15.000 ] Speaker A : Oh, yeah, squiggles is basically these lines that let me mark it. So one of these lines in the corner. So these types of lines, every line reflects one electrode and it shows the signal from a neuron that is detected at that electrode. And so every color reflects one neuron. So let's say this is basically the surface area of that one neuron that we detect on the Urate, and we can detect action potentials. And we average basically over all of the detected extra potentials to show what that looks like on the array. And this is the type of data that we use to identify from which neuron the action potential comes. So we want to know not just that an action potential happens, but also which neuron it came from. And there are special algorithms that allow you to compute that. Currently, what is available only is doing this with software that you can run only after you make your recording. So you first listen what is happening and afterwards you start your analysis. And that is a major shortcoming in the field because you cannot know what's happening in real time when you're actually making the recordings only afterwards. And so one of the things I focus on is solving that. And this is like a one step sidetrack where basically I develop neural networks, like artificial neural networks, to detect, first of all, these squiggles in our data sets. So here's an example where just to make it a little bit harder, I overlapped in case there's adjacent neurons that fire at the same time. And then the neural network detects these shapes in our data, even the small one right here at four milliseconds. And then that feeds into another algorithm that then also detects which type of neurons these wiggles came from. And we can do that in real time. And so it is for the first time that we can actually see the neurons firing and know which neuron it was that fired in milliseconds after it happens. So this is one of the papers that I'll be publishing soonish. And that allows for directly interfacing with your culture and sending it signals based on what kind of signals you're reading in that moment. And that gives you a data. Looks something like this, where every red dot is a neuron firing an action potential in our recording. So the rectangle is the data or sorry, it's the surface of the array. And these are the detections that we make on these arrays for bono organoids. And you got to keep in mind that this is played 100 times in slow motion, so the activity is really complex. This just happens in milliseconds. All these neurons are active and interacting with each other. You mainly see the activity on the outside, which is a feature of the organoids. That's where the most activity is present because that's where you are the closest to nutrients diffusing into the organoids. So that's where you usually find the majority of your neurons. And I take this data and then I do more in depth analyses. Another way of looking at what I just showed is data represented like this, or basically what I just showed was one of these bursts that you see here. So here on every row you have a neuron. And in this recording, there were 131 neurons detected. And then the x axis or the horizontal axis is time, where the skill bar indicates 1 second. And every couple of seconds you see a large burst of activity, which is one of the things I focus my analyses on. And all the blue dots are individual action potentials of that neuron, whereas the red line is the population rate. So basically the activity of all the neurons come together. Yeah.
[ 0:12:15.000 ---> 0:12:29.000 ] Speaker B : Daniel so if I understand correctly, you basically just put your neurons in the gel and they start to spontaneously fire between them.
[ 0:12:29.000 ---> 0:16:58.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. So we put our organoids on the arrays and then the activity is just spontaneous so we don't send in any signals, but the activity is already present without any incoming signals. Yeah. And this is in line with a way in which people are viewing neuroscience and the functioning of the brain now, where they don't think that all the activity in the brain is a result of external inputs that we get through our sensory organs. But instead the brain is already intrinsically active and basically the activities you see there is there to optimally process future information that can come in. So basically the brain develops in a way where it can optimally process information from the environment. And this is not just being empty until information comes in, but already having some kind of activity that is present before any external information starts to reach the brain. And this is one of the ways in which I'm interested in using organoids is studying what that activity could look like before any information comes in. And another paper that I'm finalizing is almost ready looks at that. So the intrinsic activity to then also study what happens if you send in information. And that's why I needed to develop this AI algorithm that I briefly touched on earlier, because you want to know what is happening in the organoid in that moment and then stimulate it based on that activity to see how this network of neurons is affected by external activity. And so this is one way of looking at the data, where you just look at the individual spike times, which is kind of like a discrete signal. You could almost see it as just interacting community members where an interaction happens at a specific time point. And similarly, as what we do in our activity analyses, I also compute the rate of activity. So this is basically using a sliding window and sliding it over the data and then averaging the amount of activity within that window to see an activity rate. So this is the same data as up in plot A, but in B I now have the rate. So you see periods where neurons have a very high rate. So that means that they fire a lot. This is like frequency, so it hurts so that's on average, the number of spikes per second that you would see during different time periods because once you have your data in rate like this, you can do some more additional analyses on that. Makes it easier to do computations with it similarly to what we do with our data. And one of these things is, for instance, looking at which activity is really similar from one burst to the next versus which activity is more different. And so I separated the neurons in two groups. The top group, their activity is very similar one burst after the other. So this is zoomed in for different ones, whereas the activity below it is more variable. And so sometimes neurons are active in this period, other times they're not. And this is actually something we find in some other types of neural recordings as well that collaborators have made and give further insight in how the brain structures its spontaneous activity to optimally be able to process information where we kind of think that this very stable, consistent activity provides somewhat of a framework, like a clocking mechanism, to which other information can be encoded. Because the brain doesn't have a clock inside of it, it cannot just check the time, but it kind of needs to create something like that for itself. And here you see basically the average over all of these burst for these very consistent neurons on the right, where you see that often the same neuron starts and there's some people that follow or some neurons that follow right after. And then towards the end, other neurons are becoming active and then they're active for prolonged periods. And this is always how such a burst unfolds. Yeah. Daniel.
[ 0:17:07.000 ---> 0:17:15.000 ] Speaker B : Creating some sort of system to know time as part of its activities, essentially loading it, let's say, as an application.
[ 0:17:16.000 ---> 0:20:31.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, that's a hypothesis is that the activity of these more consistent neurons is some kind of a clocking mechanism. So that the activity of other neurons that might encode actual information from the environment once that starts to come, in that it can be happening relative to one specific time point that is being indicated by these more stable neurons as a way to encode information. So it might be happening late relative to this recurring pattern or early and in that way the brain can kind of keep track of or encode information about the environment. So another type of analysis that I do is looking at correlations. So whether one neuron is correlated in its activity relative to another neuron and that creates these kinds of interaction networks where here every circle is a neuron, every node is a neuron and every line, every edge is present if there is a correlation in the activity between these two neurons. So if one neuron is often really similar in its activity right after another one and that indicates that these are functionally connected. So we don't know if they're directly connected, like structurally connected, but they are in function. We call them correlated, functionally connected. And what we see here is that there are some sender nodes and some receiver nodes and some broker nodes is how we call them, where some neurons are mainly outgoing so they always start. And the signal. So these will be your neurons that fire more early on than the burst, usually. And other neurons are always late and they're always receivers. And so, yeah, that is something that we now start to see. In our community networks as well, but it's also present in these brain networks. And then if we look at the distribution of these correlations and so that's the extent to which two are correlated, we see that there is a skewed distribution. So the majority of the connections are relatively low or medium correlations but there's like a tail of high correlations. So a few connections between neurons are very correlated and they always do the same thing. Which? Reflects that small group of neurons that always does the same thing, whereas the majority of the neurons is more variable and they sometimes do the same thing and sometimes do something different. These types of distributions, you come across them very often we have one small subset that provides a stable skeleton or a framework in which some more variable activity can then exist and I added oh yeah, Daniel.
[ 0:20:36.000 ---> 0:20:46.000 ] Speaker B : Organization design wise or community design. Right, like a small group that is providing the skeleton that's stable and the rest do different jobs and are flexible.
[ 0:20:46.000 ---> 0:24:41.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, exactly and I like that you're also thinking along those lines. I have some future slides where I touch on that a little bit as well but basically the concept of network biomimicry which I'll introduce in a second really goes into looking at networks in nature and seeing how they are structured how they're organized and what we can learn from them in making very efficient people networks. And one thing I included here as well is that we also use these organoids to look at pharmacological treatments. So we look at treating organoids with certain pharmacological compounds, in this case diazepam, which is also known as Valium, to see how that changes the activity in the organoid. In this case you see that with Valium there are more neurons that are very similar in their activity than under control conditions. So that skeleton gets strengthened and the organoid is more consistent in its activity. And it's just an example of what you can also do with organoids. You can test pharmacological treatments, you can test disease models, like you can make genetic modifications in these organoids and see how that affects the neural activity. This is still a really early and young field because the majority of or basically we're one of the first labs that studies this activity in organoids. But there's a lot of possibilities with what you can do with them. Another place where you see these Q distribution is the average rate of the organoids. So that's like how many spikes do they fire, how active are they? And here it follows yeah, you have a long tail with some neurons that are very active but the majority is not so active as another case where you see these screw distributions. And often the ones that are most active are also the ones that are most correlated to some other ones that are very active whereas the ones that are less active are also less correlated and more variable in their activity. Really highlighting the difference between one very stable like skeleton that is very present and very correlated and then also a lot of space for people that or neurons that come in and out with their activity. So yeah, I mentioned it a bit already, but from here I've been very interested in the concept of network biomimicry and so what I am currently working most with is brain networks. But before that I also looked at protein networks and ecosystem networks and I will get to your question in a second, Cyril. I found a lot of similarities in the architecture of these networks and so I started writing about that. Like what is similar between the ways that proteins interact with each other in a cell, that neurons interact with each other in the brain and that species interact with each other in ecosystems and what can we learn from that to improve our people networks. And so I have two articles about that on Mirror. So in the bottom here, if you're interested in reading more about this network mirror XYZ. The first one is network biomimicry and DAOs kind of introduces the concept of network biomimicry and then the second one applies that and also we can learn about complexity versus stability of a network from ecosystems and then also linking that to online communities? Yeah. Surreal.
[ 0:24:44.000 ---> 0:25:12.000 ] Speaker C : Yeah, it was. Regarding the previous slide basically do you have the ability to kind of measure the lifespan of a neuron in order to see, to draw some type of conclusions whether a neuron that has been there for longer is more active within the network versus a neuron that isn't active in the network? Does it eventually just die off?
[ 0:25:13.000 ---> 0:26:42.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, that's a great question. And currently within the capabilities in our lab, we cannot really measure these neurons over time because the neurons like to move. And so if it's in one position on your array on one day, it doesn't mean it will be there again next week. You can do with certain special microscopes and prolonged experiments can see that over longer periods of time. And we're currently installing one of these microscopes because we're interested in that. But in our data we're not able to study this except for some things where we make recordings with a couple of hours in between them, like a few hour intervals. And then we do see that the consistent neurons are in recording one are still very similar in their activity as in the recording afterwards. But we cannot see neurons that leave or join. One thing that people from other groups that also look into these types of questions but not necessarily within organoids have found is that the neurons that develop early on during neural developments, these are also the neurons that are the more connected ones and the more consistent ones. And so it indicates that the stable framework, the skeleton is developed first and then later on the neurons that are more variable in their activity join.
[ 0:26:43.000 ---> 0:26:44.000 ] Speaker C : The.
[ 0:26:44.000 ---> 0:29:56.000 ] Speaker A : Network at a later time. So, yeah, I mentioned that I am also writing about or interested in what we can learn from these types of networks in biology, about people networks or people constructed networks and I'll name some examples. So one is indeed the varying extent of activity and the number of connections. So these skewed distributions where you have some people that are very active and very connected and other people that are less active or less connected and maybe coming in and out of community. Then another one is the varying extensive plasticity. So some neurons fire very consistently from one moment to the next and they are like more your stable force whereas others they are more variable and do something different and might be coming in and out, sometimes active, sometimes not. And the importance of having that stable group of neurons is being consistent in the other neurons being more variable, having some frequent senders and some frequent receivers, something you see here, but also in protein interaction networks. And so some people come up with new IDs and often initiate new IDs or projects or directions whereas others are also initiating sometimes but also more often being called in these types of interactions and moderate fragmentation. Small worldness. We cannot really see it well here because we are not plotting all the connections in this figure. But if you do a cluster analysis, you do see that there are some local clusters, but that these clusters are connected to each other as well. And so these are moderate amounts of fragmentation. The network was not sampled complete enough to study whether this net was a small world network. But other brain networks are just like protein networks and ecosystem networks. And so these are just some examples of what you can find in nature on all different layers of complexity, whether you're looking at a single cell or whole ecosystem. And yeah, they have been a big inspiration for me to think about what is healthy for communities, which is reflected in some of our metrics. So, yeah, if you want to read more about that or learn more about that, either reach out to me or check out what I've put on Mirror. And yeah, those were the slides that I prepared for today. I already got some questions along the way, but if there's any more questions, then this is a great time to ask them.
[ 0:30:06.000 ---> 0:30:12.000 ] Speaker C : I have a question with regards to how we're using this within together crew.
[ 0:30:12.000 ---> 0:30:13.000 ] Speaker A : And mainly.
[ 0:30:16.000 ---> 0:30:31.000 ] Speaker C : Are we using these kind of, I would say, like visions when we're discussing with potential funders and things like this, saying this is where we want to take this.
[ 0:30:33.000 ---> 0:34:10.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. So in our conceptual framework, which we wrote right after I finished the second article, and that's kind of like side note, when I finished the second article, daniel happened to find it on Mirror and that's how he reached out to me and why I joined the team here. And some IDs that I described there were also incorporated into our conceptual framework. One thing that we now currently have quite present within our dashboard is the moderate amounts of fragmentation initially. So that's one of the metrics, one of the health metrics that we compute for these networks initially, we also computed small worldness, but we found that was a little bit too hard for people to understand what that really means, but it definitely informed us. There also the skew distributions has been something I've been interested in looking at the distributions of both the node degrees and the edge weights. Although these are also things that are a little bit too difficult to interpret by community members, like what does the node degree distribution mean and how can I take valuable insights out of that? So currently we've left that out of what we show in our dashboard, but it has definitely been part of our thinking and played an important role in defining initial set of metrics from which we made a selection. And it is something that I would like to pick up in more detail when using some of our data from a few of the larger communities. For more of an academic research project where we look closer at some of the more advanced network metrics and see how they potentially correlate with more health symptoms instead of health causes of the community, like new member retention. I just started a thread about that recently in our server to start working towards doing academic research. First of all to see how different network structures, architectures relate to more surface level health indicators or health symptoms of a community, but also with the interest of then seeing whether what works well for communities is indeed in line with what works well for other types of systems that we find in nature. I guess regarding the last part of your question, how we use this in our outreach as well, when we talk with people, I don't think we all really mentioned this because a lot of the metrics that we do show also the senders and the receivers. Yeah, it's quite similar, but I don't think we're using this currently also maybe because it could cause some confusion. Are there any other questions? All right, yeah, I got quite a few already along the way. Then I'll stop sharing and yeah. Thank you, everyone, for joining and showing interest.
[ 0:34:10.000 ---> 0:34:11.000 ] Speaker C : Oh, yeah.
[ 0:34:15.000 ---> 0:34:28.000 ] Speaker B : Have you studied at all, let's say, whether some of these organoids died or stopped operating altogether and are replaced by others or something related to kind of like churn and the ongoing live of the network?
[ 0:34:29.000 ---> 0:36:07.000 ] Speaker A : So I'm hearing that the dying of the organoids, when organoids die, the whole thing dies. And so there's no new networks that then form. Not there. Yeah. So that is also a difficult thing to measure, basically following single neurons because they like to change locations and forms. And so it's hard to identify whether you're looking at the same neuron as you were looking at a week ago. I definitely had a lot of issues with these these neurons. And it's really easy for them to die in the brain. There's only limited places where new neurons can can grow because unlike most cells, most cells, they undergo mitosis and so one cell can turn into two cells. But that's not the case for neurons. Neurons can only be formed from stem cells, which is also a reason why you should be extra careful with your neurons relative to other cells in your body. The growing of new neurons in our organoids is quite prevalent because we have a lot of stem cells there and it kind of like resembles a really early brain where there's still a lot of stem cells present, but in the actual brain, you don't see that happening as much neurogenesis only in certain brain areas. Yeah.
[ 0:36:07.000 ---> 0:36:40.000 ] Speaker C : Surreal. Yeah. You mentioned briefly that you need to watch out for your neurons more than other types of cells. And I was wondering if you could give us kind of the because I know that you work on this within Alzheimer's and I wonder if you kind of could give us some insight into maybe not. Just Alzheimer's, but health. How this, how you see this impacting? Health, maybe mental health and things like yeah, nice.
[ 0:36:41.000 ---> 0:38:24.000 ] Speaker A : I always like talking about this kind of stuff. And indeed, the lab where I work oh, I got a fancy color all of a sudden. The lab where I work is mainly focused on neurodegenerative diseases and got a lot of traction with their Alzheimer's work. One of the leading neurogenetic diseases labs in the world. And in order to some insights I guess that I got from working on this is, first of all, that neurodegenerative diseases are best to be prevented instead of to be cured, which is a general way I look at disease, but very much present here. And things you can do to prevent it are like living a healthy life. So, like not drinking alcohol, no smoking, being active, eating healthy foods, but also keeping your brain active. So continuing to learn new things don't do the same thing for too long, but give yourself a challenge or even just working on some puzzles. Social connections are important too. So, yeah, making time to connect with friends and dealing with stress. So not being exposed to stress too much, and if you are being able to let go of that stress, so things like meditation practices or yoga qigong can be very helpful for these types of things, too. And, yeah, there's no one magical pill that can take care of all of that. It's mostly a prevention through Holistic. Health is the best way to treat your brain.
[ 0:38:26.000 ---> 0:39:12.000 ] Speaker C : Another question, the kind of samples that you're growing I already organized. That's it. Are we at such a kind of basic level where we could say this organoid, organoid can be applied to any individual or do they come from something? And so, I don't know. We could say this organoid comes from a person ultimately with this type of ethnic background or something. And so the models that we're building are only valid for this kind of sample population or something like that.
[ 0:39:12.000 ---> 0:41:04.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. So the field of organoids is still really young or specifically like studying neural activity in organoids. We do grow them, in our case from human cells, but you can also grow them from cells from other animals. And these human cells need to come from a donor. And so in doing so, they reflect the DNA of that specific donor and there can be differences in the DNA. So we get also cells from patients with certain diseases, like certain genetic diseases that lead to certain neurodegenerative diseases. In those cases, the organoids really reflect that type of genome. And so they do indeed reflect a certain type of DNA. And there has been not really many studies yet, or at all to my knowledge, where they looked at organoids made from cells from people with different ethnic backgrounds or different backgrounds like that. Currently, yeah, the field is still so young that we're comparing different ways of growing organoids and often not even that, but just comparing brain organoids from humans to brain slices taken from mouse pups and really looking at what organoids are like relative to other types of brain cultures that we are more familiar with using. And when I say very young, I mean that there have been like maybe five to ten papers really discussing the neural activity in organoids at the most. So yeah, this is really like all of these kind of things are things that people are interested in netting, but we are not there yet.
[ 0:41:08.000 ---> 0:41:24.000 ] Speaker C : I have a last question for me and then I'll stop bothering you, which is and I'm asking you because we discussed this a bit, where do you see this going? The whole science and also the business application of it, the medical application of it, et cetera.
[ 0:41:25.000 ---> 0:47:00.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, I think this can go in many different directions and I think it will go in multiple. So for one, you can use these to do experiments that are much harder to do on live animals, which are usually the norm now to do these kinds of experiments. So things like making genetic modifications or doing certain pharmacological treatments or making recordings with a resolution that is high enough, like we do, are all things that are really difficult to do when you have an animal, basically a whole body attached to your organoid that can die. And in organoids it's much easier to do it and also currently ethically more accepted. At the same time, it also allows you to do these types of experiments on human cells and human brain cells because there are certain types of diseases or differences that are hard to replicate in animal models. So like for instance, making animal models of autism is really difficult and these types of conditions can be studied in organoids as well. So I see that as one direction. Pharmacological treatments, like testing those on human cells. There's a lot of interest from big pharma on utilizing organoids to do large scale screenings before kind of in between doing them on animals and on actual humans. Then there's also more science fictiony ideas of seeing if we can use these organoids for computation. So if we send certain signals in and we get the output out, can we train organoids that it does a certain computation for us and can we use that in tandem or as an alternative to artificial intelligence? Kind of like talking about organoid intelligence. That is something people are interested in too. You have questions around consciousness. Can these organoids be conscious? Can they be used to study consciousness? And then just more fundamental questions about the development of the brain. Because this is basically the only type of model that can really show you activity without any external inputs. Because when you do experiments on an animal and you want to see how it responds to, let's say, a certain image that you're showing, it you always have to consider that these might also be just muscle movements that you're detecting the brain signals of or other types of inputs that they're getting at the same time. And you really have to think about how you set up your experiments there and here you know that there is no other activity coming in because there's simply no organs connected to these, like no sensory organs connected to these organoids. And that allows you to also do some stimulation experiments where you stimulate certain neurons and see how that external activity that you introduce into the organoid propagates into the rest of the network to get a better understanding about how neurons at like a circuit level process information. And that's one of the things that I'm focused on. Then. One other potential future use case that people are working towards, which I think is pretty impressive is using organoids to give like to replace brain tissue that people lost. So a couple of years ago already they showed that when they took a little bit out of the brain from a mouse and they replaced that with a brain organoid from mouse cells, they could actually detect that these brain cells were taken up into the brain network like the overall brain of that mouse. And so the neurons became part of the neural networks in that brain veins started growing into it and it really was taken up as new brain tissue. So you could think of people that had a stroke or something like that and lost brain tissue as a result that could potentially be replaced or similarly to this like using organoids for computation. It might be that there could be a future where we all have a second brain that we're connected to through a brain machine interface or something that can just is an indirect connection with our brain and gives us extra computation power in our brain. These are longer term IDs, but yeah, within multiple decades to a century these might be things that we can really start to consider as becoming a reality. And so yeah, these are also things that this field might go towards then the last thing in the latest update from Neuralink so that is Elon Musk's brain machine interface company, very interesting company by the way. I would definitely read up on that if neuroscience is of interest to you. But in their last update they also presented they use organoids to test their devices. So that's another way in which organoids are used to see whether their neural links are working properly and how they behave in neural tissue over prolonged periods of times.
[ 0:47:04.000 ---> 0:47:36.000 ] Speaker C : In this vision of the ability to buy essentially you can go out on the market and say I need to become or to process information faster. So I'm going to go and basically do you're going to have Amazon which is going to be offering organoids as infrastructure as a so you can basically then out intelligence, somebody just by throwing money at the problem, essentially, in theory.
[ 0:47:36.000 ---> 0:49:11.000 ] Speaker A : That could be possible. There will probably be a lot of obstacles along the way to get to that, but in theory, it could be possible, especially with the brain machine interface technology that has been developing as well. So, yeah, again, Neuralink is definitely one of the main players in that field. They can already read quite some activity out of your brain. They currently have no write ability, so they cannot send signals back into your brain. And so that would be currently the main limiting factor to just outsource some computation and get the results directly back into your brain. Initially, that might have to happen through VR or something, but maybe in the future they could even stimulate your brain and send signals directly back. But again, there might be unforeseen obstacles that make that take a lot longer than we can imagine, but people are definitely interested in that. And once you have that interface with the brain machine interface, it's a question whether you could run these things on a computer or whether you need more biologically inspired computation, and you might need organoids for that. That is also an open question. So whether we can do a brain machine interface, just hook us up to AWS, for instance, and just run our queries there, or whether you need an organoid type of tissue to do these kinds of things for you.
[ 0:49:15.000 ---> 0:49:35.000 ] Speaker C : It's interesting. I also see it from a workforce model. Right. Today. We already do that, right. Because we employ people who will think for us. But if you can just basically outsource that to some kind of organized service, it also changes the whole workforce model. Interesting.
[ 0:49:40.000 ---> 0:49:43.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. And then GPT gets a new competitor.
[ 0:49:46.000 ---> 0:49:56.000 ] Speaker C : Yeah. All right, I think we're at the hour, so unless any last questions, I think we need to let people go. But thank you very much for that.
[ 0:49:56.000 ---> 0:49:57.000 ] Speaker A : Super interesting.
[ 0:49:57.000 ---> 0:50:03.000 ] Speaker C : And at it for the second time, and I still am like, wow, I've.
[ 0:50:03.000 ---> 0:50:08.000 ] Speaker A : Been working on this for four years and I still feel like, wow, very cool.
[ 0:50:09.000 ---> 0:50:11.000 ] Speaker C : All right, cool. Thank you very much, Anne.
[ 0:50:11.000 ---> 0:50:14.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, you're welcome. This was fun. And thank you all for your questions.
