[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:00:21.000 ] Speaker A : Hey, everyone. I'm Daniel, part of Dao, here with Edwin Jensen and some of the rest of the crew. Edwin has kindly accepted to share a little bit about the Tlos. So maybe, Edwin, if you'd like to share a few words about yourself and how the Tlos came to be and what it is. Get going.
[ 0:00:21.000 ---> 0:08:16.000 ] Speaker B : Cool. Well, thanks for having me. I'm excited. I joined Rndao, I guess a week ago exactly. And it's been fun already, engaging with a few different people, and I'm really excited to talk about this. So, yeah. Edwin Janssen, I like to introduce myself to crowds like you as a recovering manager. I was a manager for a long time in the tech world, and like many people, when I read Reinventing Organizations, I think that was seven or eight years ago, it completely changed my paradigm for how we could be more successful as organizations. I realized that all of the things that I was trying to do to engage people and do great, meaningful work together were limited by the fact that I had this weird power and authority. And so at the time when I found Reinventing Organizations, I was incubating a startup within the company that I work for, which is called the Ian Martin Group. We're a 63 year old third generation family business. And about 15 years ago, the grandson of the original co founder essentially inherited the business, but he's a software developer, not a staffing guy. And so he immediately made moves to turn the company into a B Corp. So anyone who's not familiar with what a B Corp is, the B stands for benefit. And so companies like Ben and Jerry's and Patagonia and Warby Parker are B Corp. So it's essentially the certification for a social enterprise. So we move from being a very traditional, profit driven staffing company to becoming a purpose first social enterprise. And you actually, as a B Corp, need to write purpose and various stakeholder benefits into your governance, into your legal framework as a company. And so I started working for this company ten years ago, and I was hired to invent new businesses that were mission driven. And our purpose is to connect people in meaningful work. And there's lots of barriers out there for why people don't find meaningful work. So I've had my hands full. So going back to reading Reinventing Organizations, at the time, I was incubating a startup called Fitz for the company. And we were, I think, eight people at the time. We read this book and we were really inspired by it. There was only two managers, myself and my favorite colleague, LUTH Iglesius. And we said, let's just try know. And so we stripped ourselves of our managerial authority. We had a party, actually we did it on Valentine's Day, so we called it Valentil's Day. And then we spent the next couple of years reinventing all of the practices that required a manager to do something so hiring, firing, budget approvals, compensation, and we just took our time and we slowly reinvented all of those practices. And then over time, the rest of the company started taking notice and started these practices, started seeping into the rest of the company. And then I think it's about three years ago that the company essentially there was enough of these practices had seeped through. So the company actually kind of had a referendum, and the managers officially gave up their power and the rest of the company as well. Now we're nearly 500 people around the world. We're in Canada, in the US. That's where our customers are. But then our recruiting is often offshore, like in India, the Philippines, Ghana, Peru. And so this has been a real magical experience for everyone. And it's interesting, in the Teal world, in the non Teal world, there's often questions, well, yeah, this sounds like it's great for people, but is it actually more successful? Is it actually more productive? Does it make business sense? And we've got an interesting story to share. When the Pandemic happened two years ago, as you can imagine being in recruiting, our job orders were immediately down by like, 70%. No one was hiring. Everyone was doing layoffs and salary freezes. Right? The rest of our industry went through a contraction almost immediately. They did layoffs and salary freezes reductions themselves. At our company, you can't be laid off, things can't happen to you. So we essentially moved very quickly to name a new, what we call a thematic goal, which is a Patrick Lencione tool that answers the question, what is most important right now? And so we quickly shifted our thematic goal and we did this collectively through using Lumio, our collective decision making tool, to essentially pivot our company and move away from helping the employers that weren't hiring into employers that were hiring. And if you remember, at the beginning of the pandemic, retirement homes, long term care facilities really desperately needed to hire nurses and PSW. So we started we had no healthcare experience. We started helping them. Then we started helping different government entities with COVID-19 contact tracing, and we started fully staffing all of those teams. Then we moved into vaccine scheduling. And so, lo and behold, our industry went through a major contraction. And over the two years, post Pandemic, we grew our net income by 650%, which is astounding. And when we did a retro on this, like, wow, what happened? The Teal operating system was the most cited reason as to how we could have possibly performed so well in that environment. So what is the Teal operating system? That's the link that we've shared here. Teal ianmartin.com so if you all go to that, this is essentially the framework that we've built together over the years. And if you click on the boxes that are kind of popping up for you, you can see the detail of all of the practices. So there's different Teal systems as we know holocracy Sociocracy, this is our homegrown system. We've shamelessly stole all of the different things that we could find from different systems and ideas and then we've iterated it over time. So what I was thinking today is you're all, I'm sure, enthusiastic and interested about all of these different practices. This is obviously used in a company environment, not in a dow environment. But yeah, I'm open for business. Whatever questions you have, whatever topics the juicier the question, the better. I'm more than willing to get vulnerable and tell you all of the mistakes and tears that were shed in the creation of this thing. So yeah, that's my spiel.
[ 0:08:18.000 ---> 0:08:48.000 ] Speaker A : Thanks a lot, Edwin. While everyone else maybe takes a look, I have a first curiosity I'd love to get started with, and I understand that it's a group. So you have multiple businesses and you're starting new businesses. So could you tell us a little bit about how does that process work of starting new businesses and especially the funding around these new businesses and those funding decisions?
[ 0:08:49.000 ---> 0:11:19.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, well, that's essentially my core role at the company. So I have the role of corporate development. Fancy way of saying what is our future strategy? And it's interesting because yesterday I was talking to Ted Rao from Sociocracy about this very question and he was posting on Twitter like, how do we do strategy in organizations? And I can tell you it's the same as in orange and green organizations, but very different. It's the same sort of motion but a very different mindset. So instead of me driving and proposing and really trying to create the strategy, me and people like me are sensing into a possible future, repeating that back to people, and then trying to marshal support and interest in making a proposal. So if you look at our Teal operating system, we essentially have two different types of decisions. Decisions which don't affect people, which don't change their work, don't require behavior change. And those are advice processes, right, where you're supposed to consult with subject matter experts and people who are in the know and then there are consent based decisions. So making an investment proposal if it's significant. And actually we've decided to make all hiring consent based because we're a people organization. So the biggest spend that we have in aggregate are hires. And we also want to make it clear what internal opportunities there exist and if there's a job that a person internally could feel that's better than a person externally. So we've chosen to make all hiring consent based. So we've got a consent to hire. And so if I wanted to make a hire, I would simply do a consent to hire if I wanted to. We just made a kind of an acqui hire of I think, half a dozen people and that was also done through lumio as a proposal. Hey, we're going to spend a million dollars and here is the business case. And then we've got lots of kind of vigorous debate and questions and the decision and the proposal gets better through a more integrative process like that.
[ 0:11:21.000 ---> 0:11:37.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. Super interesting. Would you mind perhaps for those who might not be familiar with the advisory process to give us a quick overview of that and then obviously, by contrast, the difference from these consent sort of proposal based process.
[ 0:11:37.000 ---> 0:13:56.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, sure. So the advice process, my favorite book on this is called The Decision Maker. I forget who. Dennis Beckett, I think. And he was one of the companies which was at the time called AES, which was featured in Reinventing organizations. The advice process simply is kind of anyone can make any decision provided you use the advice process, which is asking people for their advice either if they're impacted or affected or close to it, or if they're a subject matter expert. So if I want to upgrade my computer and buy a fancy new Mac, then I would ask the advice of the It people in the company. I might ask the advice of a budget, like someone in finance or whatever. Do we have the kind of money for this? I might ask other people that I've seen that have fancy Macs, like, is it worth it? Or whatever. And then different companies have different degrees of transparency as to how you're incorporating your advice and then making your decision. And then essentially everyone is responsible and accountable to their decision, right? So, yeah, I could buy this fancy Mac and I say, okay, I'm going to increase my productivity by 10%, and then I might say, now I'm going to report back in six months as to how that decision kind of played out. And then we actually use a decision making tool called Lumio, which is really easy. Like, you basically create a thread and then you ask for your advice. You get all this advice, then you turn your thread into a proposal which someone can either say, I consent to if it's a consent based process, or they can say, I block this, I object to this, thumbs down. And then at our company, if you object, you are implicated in helping the person to overcome the objection. So you're saying, hey, I think whatever, it's not worth it buying the high end Mac, I think you should get a refurbished one, or whatever. And then we work together on fixing the proposal so the person can't just object and then bail.
[ 0:13:59.000 ---> 0:14:07.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. And so you're using both Lumio and these threads both for the advisory and the consent processes.
[ 0:14:07.000 ---> 0:14:08.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 0:14:09.000 ---> 0:14:37.000 ] Speaker A : And in the advisory process, at least the version I'm familiar with at the end is the person who started the action. They made a decision, right. Like they just get a little bit of they ask for input for the different people, the advice, and then after that, they are free to make whatever decision they feel is right after having received that advice. It's also like that the way it operates within you just follow after the thread. Essentially, after the people have replied to the thread, they go, this is my decision at the end.
[ 0:14:37.000 ---> 0:15:30.000 ] Speaker B : Yes, exactly. So if it's an advice process, you don't need consent, you just need to collect advice. And we encourage you to be transparent. Here's what I'm going to do so that you can be held accountable or responsible for that decision. Yeah. So it's either an advice process, you have to get advice, you got to listen to it all, you don't have to follow it all. It's not a democracy. You're responsible for your decision. Consent is, I need your consent. And consent doesn't necessarily mean agreement, it means safe to try. I don't see this as a backward movement. I can live with this. Right. So that's another key thing that's kind of challenging to make sure that people understand is that doing this doesn't mean I think this is the best proposal. Doing this means at a minimum, I can live with this.
[ 0:15:33.000 ---> 0:15:47.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. Super interesting. I have a bunch more questions, but I don't know if there is someone else who would like to jump in and you have something that you'd like either to say to mention or a question to ask. Pablo.
[ 0:15:48.000 ---> 0:16:02.000 ] Speaker C : Yeah. You mentioned Lumio as one of the tools that you use. Could you go through your tech stack tool stack on how you make all this work? Is it just Lumio or are you combining some other tools?
[ 0:16:02.000 ---> 0:18:53.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, we're a 63 year old company, so keep that in mind. And so we do use Microsoft Office and Microsoft Teams as our primary communication. So that's part of, unfortunately, from my point of view, part of our tech stack. And then I mentioned Lumio and we're right now in the process of evaluating and hopefully well, actually we're testing and growing our use of a Teal.org tool called Nestor. Actually, I know Yoast from Nestor is in Dow, so that's a tool that we use. We're actually testing Sobal. I know you guys are looking at Sobal. I know Brian from really, really well. I think that's a fantastic tool. So yeah, I think it's very important to have some kind of what I would call Teal.org tool because the biggest challenge is, and I think this is probably a challenge for Dows as well, is people come in and they're like, WTF who does what? How does this work? What are teams, are where? And I'm sorry, maybe I'm discord illiterate, but I cannot make sense out of discord. It's hard, it's difficult. So I think that's a key tool to have. And then I shared with you guys already our Teal Ianmartin.com, that's our Teal operating system. So that's essentially our governance detail, like that's how to get work done. And so we're constantly updating that and we actually have decided that all what we call common practices. So everything that you see in that tlos are a common practice. They all need to be consented to by everyone. Not necessarily by everyone, but anyone can consent to it. So I was just recently stewarding an update to our role advice process, got lots of advice, came back, did a proposal in Lumio, got even more advice. And then, you know, so whenever we're upgrading kind of to a version two or version three of a practice, we're getting everyone's consent to do that. So that's definitely a best practice. And then I don't know if you guys have looked at Murmur, they're still in kind of stealth mode, but I think that those sorts of tools where you can on the fly iterate on the agreements that you have. About how you're going to do work together. That's a really critical tool that I see missing in many dows and would just make life easier for everyone.
[ 0:18:58.000 ---> 0:19:05.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. We have Elache, who's asking the decision making process consent is anonymous or not?
[ 0:19:06.000 ---> 0:19:17.000 ] Speaker B : No, nothing is. Very little is anonymous at our company because we're all employees and all of that. It's kind of a different paradigm.
[ 0:19:20.000 ---> 0:19:45.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. I'm kind of curious, do you have the budgeting processes? Are those sort of on a rolling basis through the consent process? Or do you have some sort of cohort or cyclical budgeting where you compare things? Can you tell us a little bit about the way you do it and why is that way? Or any thoughts that you might have about why not alternatives or so on?
[ 0:19:45.000 ---> 0:21:03.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, well, that's an area I think that we can improve on. So if you imagine 63 year old company, like ten years ago, five years ago even, we were trying to do what I think is kind of a silly thing that companies do, right? Let me predict the future as best I can and create a budget, right? And then let's completely miss the mark and flagellate ourselves because we couldn't predict the future. So over the last few years, though, our CFO and the finance team have been really attempting to do rolling forecasts and looking into tools like beyond budgeting and those, I think, more dynamic financial management systems. I don't think we're there yet. So we still do create an annual budget that is just actually at least a few times a year and in some ways kind of dynamically managed, but we just don't have a great cadence of actually formally doing this rolling forecast. So it's kind of a work in progress. Does that answer your question, Daniel? Is that what you're getting?
[ 0:21:06.000 ---> 0:21:37.000 ] Speaker A : Think it. Abby, I know you have a question. I'll go into it in a second, just before that, to continue a little bit on this. Fred. Well, you're saying the budget as a forecast, but then there is also, let's say, a funds allocation piece that happens as part of that forecast let's say like this team will get this budget for their operations and this other team or this other business will get this much?
[ 0:21:38.000 ---> 0:22:15.000 ] Speaker B : No, thankfully not. So yeah, that is something that we used to do and is no longer we're not trying to predict and imagine and allocate in that way. So the budget is more like we have this base business, let's go to all the business units and try to predict as best we can what their revenues and their costs are going to look like. And then we manage investments, net new investments via consent processes and proposals as we're going along.
[ 0:22:16.000 ---> 0:23:04.000 ] Speaker A : Right, thank you. Actually, sorry, one more question on this, Fred. So let's say the profit that every business is making, the excess, is that going to a central pot that then is being managed through the consent process? Okay, yeah, cool, thank you. And is that happening, let's say at the umbrella level or at the individual businesses level or both? Or is there some sort of like the individual businesses have a common pot or like the umbrella level or what would be in a corporate setting more the HQ that a certain amount of budget stays within the business and certain amount is given to HQ as a sort of tax or contribution to the parent company.
[ 0:23:04.000 ---> 0:25:13.000 ] Speaker B : We used to do it like that, we don't anymore. Basically you have the kind of baseline operating budget that each business signs up for. Here's what we're expecting in revenue, here's what our base of cost, which is mostly headcount costs and salaries. Right. And then they're just managing within that. And if they want to do anything extra, they're making all company wide consent proposals with their business case. Essentially. The other interesting thing we started doing in the last two years, if you can imagine, we grew our net income 650%. So all of a sudden we had this amazing financial windfall. The CFO hates when I use the word windfall. And our owner is he turned the company into a B Corp. He owns 100% of this company, but he doesn't want to. He wants to and is actively exploring, doing ESOPs or turning us into a Dow with tokens. And how does he transfer? He wants the employees to own and control the company. Today they're already managing it. They should own it. So what he's actually done is created a profit sharing model. And so he's worked with the CFO and said, what do we, as stewards of this company, reasonably need to take as retained earnings every year? What percentage or what do we need to please the bankers and to have as our rainy day fund? And then basically the rest of it is being given back to the employees via profit sharing. So I made more money last year than I've ever made in my career. Because of the profit sharing. We're kind of already working as if we were owners of the company. And receiving the benefits via profit sharing without actually having to buy the company from him. So it's incredibly generous how he's done it.
[ 0:25:13.000 ---> 0:25:23.000 ] Speaker A : Fantastic. Thank you. So Abby was asking, how do you create the psychological safety where non anonymous decisions can feel comfortable for the group?
[ 0:25:24.000 ---> 0:28:46.000 ] Speaker B : Love this question. Thank you for that, Abby. Psych. Safety is so critical. It is the foundational thing or one of the foundational things for the Teal operating system to be successful. And so it's not one thing that we do to create psychological safety. It's a thousand things. But it all starts with being incredibly mindful of what creates and takes away from psychological safety. We've spent, I think, the most amount of time in what I call the lifeblood of the Tlos on our feedback practice. And so we use a particular model from a little book called Feedback that Works, and they talk about the SBI model, situation, behavior, impact. And then we added Tir. How you receive this feedback? T. Thank you. This is a gift I let me inquire so I can deeply understand it. And then r repeat and record. Okay, Daniel, you know I'm going to repeat to you this is what I'm hearing. Did I get that right? And then we've actually tried to gamify it. Okay, now I got to go into one of our tools and go hashtag Tir. Thank you, Daniel, for the feedback. And then we can track that. Daniel gave me the gift of feedback, just to mention about SBI and why I think it's worked so well for us. It's a way for people, when they're emotionally triggered and could give feedback in such a way that it might decrease psychological safety, it kind of forces them to package it in a container that has good chances of landing in a healthy, know it's as you can imagine situations. So let's say Daniel gives me feedback. Edwin situation was in this Google meet, right? Behavior was whatever. I used a word that triggered Daniel and that made him feel, whatever, bad in some way. The impact is impact on Daniel so he can't say and I saw that Paulo was grimacing, and I think Paolo was really offended. That's secondhand feedback, that's up to Paulo to give me. And so Daniel is saying, okay, Edwin, you made me feel bad. And I'm telling you this because my belief is your intention wasn't to make me feel bad. So I'm sharing this with you so that we can be closer together, not as a know whatever. And then so I say oh, wow. Thank you, Daniel, because it's really hard to give feedback like that. And how can I know? Like, I don't want to offend you. Oh, my like, thank you for that. Now, let me understand. Was it this? Was it that? Have I done this before? How could I have said it differently so that I wouldn't have offended you? That's the I that's the inquirer right? And then I repeat back and I say, OK, Daniel, I use this word. And really, if I would have used this word, it would have been better. And here's my commitment to going forward. What do you think? And then Daniel's like, holy shit.
[ 0:28:46.000 ---> 0:28:46.000 ] Speaker A : Amazing.
[ 0:28:46.000 ---> 0:29:47.000 ] Speaker B : Now we're blood brothers, right? So the key for psychological safety, in my opinion, is helping people to better communicate. What's interesting is we have a conflict resolution practice that we actually call our facilitation practice. And I'm a trained facilitator. In that practice, we change the name from the resolution practice to facilitation because people think that they're in conflict when they're not. There's not actually a conflict. There is a miscommunication, a misunderstanding, there's some hurt feelings, there's some triggering. So to me, psychological safety is all about better communicating with each other, giving each other the benefit of the doubt, coming from a place of love and not fear. And when we see fear and we see scarcity and we see hurt feelings, how do we shine a light on that and help people? So anyway, that was a long monologue, long answer to your question there, Abby, but you can tell I'm passionate about it.
[ 0:29:50.000 ---> 0:30:02.000 ] Speaker A : It's great. Thank you. So when Paolo did you had a question? Yeah, please go.
[ 0:30:02.000 ---> 0:30:33.000 ] Speaker C : Maybe just to go deeper on this topic, how often do you think just an estimate, how often do you think you have to facilitate moments like that where people have conflicts or there's some misunderstanding or hurt feelings and so on? In a 500 person organization, how often does that happen?
[ 0:30:36.000 ---> 0:33:30.000 ] Speaker B : We don't track it. I think we have about 15 trained facilitators and people I wish they were good about this, but aren't very good about doing the hashtag tir. Thanks for the feedback. So we really don't know. All I could say is my guess is that maybe thinking from a person point of view, that at least once a month, if not more, you have a conversation with someone that doesn't go as well as it could. Have. And that sticks with you, that triggered you in some way, that's given you some story about whatever, that person and your relationship at least once a month, if not once a week, if not for some people, once a know. And the longer that it goes without the Sbitir, often the worse it gets. So just last week I had to do a group facilitation between two departments, our sales team and essentially like our customer success team. And there were 25 people or something in this meeting and four months of miscommunication and hurt feelings. And just like it was really tense, super tense. And the most fascinating thing, at least for me, is the whole problem that everyone was all hot and bothered about and literally like people using the word furious and people thinking that, oh my God, I might get fired for this. Even though you can't get fired at our company it's like we're not curing cancer. It's like how do we serve? When our customer asks us a question, do we have dedicated reps that answer it? Or do we have a group, a pool that answer questions like literally, that's what they were all crazy about. So I was trying to explain to people if we can communicate well with each other, we can solve any of these problems. The only problem that we have is one group said you guys did made this mistake and then they were blame, blame, blame angry. And then the other group was like freeze and scared and defensive. Right. So I call this the final frontier in Teal. We've spent all of our time on governance and the practices are fine. The practices are not the problem. It's how do we help people communicate with each other?
[ 0:33:37.000 ---> 0:35:58.000 ] Speaker A : That resonates a lot. I was having a very random interaction on Twitter a couple of days ago where I made some comment about Dows and someone reply with something about how they completely disagreed. And after a few interactions we ended up realizing that they were talking about Dows, an enzyme that has something to do with epigenetics. Anyway, we kind of had a laugh, but very quickly the conversation turned at how rare it is to have disagreement in one of these online platforms that then turns into a laugh and some understanding. And the conversation was so random that I guess it wasn't triggering for us. But with my partner who's a relationship coach, she often mentions that the things that trigger us are those that affect our identity. That is when the story, the narrative that we have about ourselves gets something contradicts that. Especially in a public setting, if we feel our status as an expert or good person in this way, that is challenged. So I can definitely see that being a huge issue. And in DAOs, where people are coming in and out all the time, I guess it can be a big challenge. So I'm very curious because one thing I noticed, for example, with Arunda as it has developed, is at the beginning it was relatively simple and now there is a lot more going on. And the people coming in now, they have to face all of that complexity and there is people coming in, in and out all the time. So I know that in your situation it's a little bit different, but still the operating system that you guys have developed for Teal is quite comprehensive and there is a lot of practices there and quite a few mindset changes. So I'm very curious how your sort of recruitment onboarding process works with that. And if you could tell us a little bit of how does it work to bring people into these? Well, what is probably a very different culture from many others they have worked in in the past.
[ 0:35:59.000 ---> 0:40:57.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, well, I wrote an article about this and what I've noticed. On medium. It's like something like how people really adopt Teal. And the analogy that I use or the metaphor or analogy, I don't know is that it's head heart habit. So first, we can't kind of hire you in good conscience if you don't understand intellectually in your head that this is a different paradigm, that the Teal paradigm is different than what you're likely coming from. And so we give people the books and the articles, and we talk their ear off so that they can understand this is not incrementally different. This is completely different. Like, the work is 90% the same, but the paradigm, the container is very different. And so in our recruitment process, we explain all this stuff, and essentially, the person needs to say, I get it. I understand it, and I like it. I want to try it. I think that this should be better than what I'm coming from. So that's kind of the intellectual the head understanding. Then you get into what I call the messy middle, which is the heart and the emotional phase of the adoption. And everyone goes through this that I have seen everyone, because the systems that we're coming from, you have to protect yourself, because the company's goals are not the same as yours, right? There's many times when you have to defend yourself and protect yourself and take care of yourself, the company doesn't actually take care of you. So you're in this Teal system, and something happens to you. You get some tough feedback, or you're in an actual conflict with someone, and you get scared. You get fear triggered. And so the places that if you were traumatized and where you came from that's triggered, you're like, oh, shit, this is happening again. Okay, I got to protect myself. And you start defending. Blaming Daniel gives me some feedback that triggers, like, you, like, the thing that I'm most afraid of about myself or the thing that I don't want to be true about myself, right? And then I'm like, no, man, Daniel, you're wrong, and you're bad. You must be out to get me. Whatever. And then what I like to say know, around here, personal development is a team know? So Daniel gives me some valid feedback about how I offended him. And what I hear is not that he cares about our relationships. And so he's telling me what I hear is that you're telling me I'm a jerk, and I'm not a jerk. Right? Daniel must be out to get he, and he talked to Katerina about this, so they're like, colluding know? And then Daniel and Paulo and Katerina get around me, and they're like, Edwin, we love you. We think you're great. And sometimes you say things that offend us, and we think you can be a better version of yourself if you know that. And you try to not say those things that offend us. And some people realize, you know what? I have nothing to be afraid of here. Let me take that feedback and be a better version, because these three people care about me, and some people are like, screw you guys and I'm out of here, or, this is not true, or some story. Right. So that's the heart phase, which is an adoption of the paradigm, that this truly is an ecosystem where love that loves you and wants you to be the best version of yourself. Right. And not the other paradigm story, which is, I have to protect myself and people are out to get me, or the company is against me. Right. And then kind of once you're through that and you still get triggered I mean, I get emotionally triggered from time to time, I get into that place. But once you're mostly through that, then you're into the third level, which is habit, habit change. I used to show up at meetings and acted like this, but now in this paradigm, I'm practicing showing up like this. Right. And then it's changing those habits that we formed in our previous working lives.
[ 0:41:02.000 ---> 0:41:39.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you so much. Two follow up questions, but first I'll ask one, then I'll pass to Oliver, and then maybe I'll ask the other one after. So just a quick clarification as you're going through these initial phases of the head, the heart, and then the practice, do you have some sort of, I guess, schooling academy training? How does that work? How is this process held?
[ 0:41:40.000 ---> 0:42:47.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. So in your first three months, you get assigned a sponsor, a teal sponsor that you're meeting with regularly. And that's just helping you to practice the practices. Practice giving feedback. Practice receiving feedback. Go out and give it. Right. Realizing, like, it's your responsibility to give feedback. It's a problem or an opportunity if you see it. So if our CEO tries to give a motivational speech and it demotivates you, you are responsible for giving the CEO feedback. Hey, I think you were trying to motivate us, but when you said this, that actually demotivated me. And that sounds crazy to people. Right. And so the sponsor is there to say, what have you noticed that could be better? Have you had any interactions with people that weren't great? They share one. Okay, great. Awesome. Let's write it out. SBI.
[ 0:42:47.000 ---> 0:42:47.000 ] Speaker A : Okay.
[ 0:42:47.000 ---> 0:44:34.000 ] Speaker B : You're going to go and give it. How did that go? So over three months, that sponsor is, like, encouraging you to adopt the practices. And then at the end of the three month period, you graduate. You either graduate or you don't, basically. And that sponsor is responsible for making that decision, whether you graduate. And then we have a really beautiful two, three hour meeting with the people that you've worked most closely, and we do a retro of what you've learned and how you've grown and how we can continue to support your success, because it's not done at three months. You're not through the heart phase. For sure at three months. So yeah, that's what we do. And then the other thing is all of our most intense practices, the role advice practice, the contribution review, the compensation advice process, and then facilitation, they involve what we call a peer mentor. So when you're going to go and change your comp, you pick a peer mentor to help you with all the head trash that you're going to get when Paulo comes in and is like, edwin, you're great, but you are not worth a million dollars and here's why, right? So then I can call my peer mentor and be like, okay, how do I make sense of this? So we make sure that you have buddies like, I'm a facilitator and I've needed facilitators to come and help me when know going crazy about.
[ 0:44:37.000 ---> 0:44:44.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. That's super, super insightful, Oliver. And then Ray has a question that I'll ask.
[ 0:44:45.000 ---> 0:45:29.000 ] Speaker D : Thanks, Daniel. And thanks, Edwin. Exciting topic, maybe just a quick parentheses. I'm really exploring and deep diving into this rabbit hole. And Teal, of course, is something self organized organizations or collegial leadership and all that. And now connecting it with Blockchain and the Dao movement, I feel there's tremendous potential in that. What I felt you were already a little bit touching on was I wanted to know. First off, and I had a second question, if I may, on average, and I know everyone is different, but these three phases that you described, how long does that take? And what is a good kind of rule of thumb for when should you through it?
[ 0:45:31.000 ---> 0:48:53.000 ] Speaker B : I don't know, man. Honestly, I'm just happy we're talking about it. I certainly obviously haven't done any kind of a study around this, and this is just my weird idea. It might not even be true or accurate, I don't know. But I would say that the heart phase. We have some leaders, senior leaders in our organization that in my opinion, still are not through the heart phase after five years. Yeah. And so what I'm working on right now and you guys are all, I guess, Teal nerds and nerds about this kind of stuff, maybe you can help me. I believe that there are some beliefs behind the Teal operating system. And my definition of a belief is something that I believe to be true, but someone else could believe the opposite to be true, and neither of us is right. It's almost like a faith based thing. So, for instance, you've got a belief that something that Aaron Dign talked about in his book Brave New Work, that you're people positive. I believe that people are creative and resourceful and dedicated and trustworthy generally. Or you might have a distrustful belief. I believe people, in order to get the best out of people, you need to manage them and trust but verify or whatever. So that's an example, right? You can have a belief in the value of radical transparency versus being careful with your information. So something that I think an inkling that could be valuable is to somehow codify what are all these beliefs? And then help people to look at those beliefs and say, do I believe that or not? Because if I don't, I'm going to be miserable here and I'm going to make other people miserable. And so the thing that I think where we've gone wrong most as an organization is that senior leaders who essentially need to see the value for them and everyone else in giving up power, they need to want to give up power because they believe it's better. But their whole jobs previous were it's better for everyone if I'm responsible for the whole team because I'm smart and capable and all of this stuff, right. And because those people can't take responsibility for the whole thing like I can. So it's like a dismantling of the whole belief. But then you're like, okay, but wait, if I'm not responsible for everyone and everything, then what am I good for? What's my use? Right. At our organization, that's a really scary, hard thing. I went through this thing and we have not helped powerful people to work through that in a healthy, supportive way. That's been a blind spot for us, in my opinion. Yeah.
[ 0:48:53.000 ---> 0:48:58.000 ] Speaker A : Oliver, if that's okay, I'm going to follow with Ray's question.
[ 0:48:58.000 ---> 0:49:01.000 ] Speaker D : Please go. Thank you so much. Edwin.
[ 0:49:01.000 ---> 0:49:24.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. And then there is one by Abby just to rotate it a bit. I'm not sure Abby will get to yours, but at least hopefully, we can do race. And he says, as we talk about triggers, I'm curious if there is a perspective on leave trauma and how it might be harder for some folk to feel safe and regulated than others. Is there a perspective on if the organization has a responsibility to help folk.
[ 0:49:24.000 ---> 0:49:33.000 ] Speaker B : Work through these triggers when you're leaving the organization? I don't know if I follow leave trauma. What is that?
[ 0:49:35.000 ---> 0:49:41.000 ] Speaker A : Lived experience? Yeah, it's experienced trauma. Sorry, that's my pronunciation.
[ 0:49:43.000 ---> 0:51:19.000 ] Speaker B : I'm going to get feedback on that from Daniel. I don't totally know if I understand what you're asking, but what's coming up for me, or at least what I've noticed, is that everyone has work trauma from the past, right? Or from school even. And these things are often triggered. And something that I spend a lot of time doing as a facilitator. When someone is triggered or when two people are in conflict or miscommunicating is separating the facts that you would both agree on what happened, who said what what happened, and the story that you're telling yourself about why that happened, what the meaning is, what that person intended, what that's going to mean for the future? And what I've noticed is that human beings are meaning making machines, right? We're constantly inventing meaning, but if we don't find ways to share that meaning with each other in healthy ways, then we can do this, right? And make it worse for ourselves. So I don't know if that answers your question, but I've spent a lot of my time in helping people to understand their trauma and understand how their trauma can potentially be processed in a healthy way through a situation. And sometimes it just hurts too much and someone can't go there or do it.
[ 0:51:24.000 ---> 0:52:36.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you so much. This has been super insightful. There is a few more questions that were around. Oliver, I know you had one, katerina as well. Unfortunately, our time is up, but I would encourage everyone. I shared a couple of links, follow the Twitter and there is a link there to see the other events that we have. And the great news is that Edwin is not going anywhere. Obviously his time, he might have other priorities as well, but he's in the Dao server and you're welcome to ask him for him to decide if he wants to respond. But you're welcome to ask and continue the conversation in the Learning and Discussion Channel. We can start a thread there and keep these conversation around Teal and DAOs alive, because as Oliver was saying earlier, there is probably a tremendous potential there to explore this intersection and to use this Dao movement to help catalyze this wave of progressive organizations. So thank you all, everyone, for attending. Thank you so much, Edwin, for sharing all of these insights from your experience and the amazing work that you guys been doing. Very appreciate it and very soon.
[ 0:52:36.000 ---> 0:52:40.000 ] Speaker B : Thanks for having me. My door is open. I love talking about this stuff, so don't be shy.
[ 0:52:41.000 ---> 0:52:42.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you.
[ 0:52:42.000 ---> 0:52:43.000 ] Speaker D : Have a good weekend.
[ 0:52:43.000 ---> 0:52:45.000 ] Speaker B : See you. Bye, everyone.
[ 0:52:45.000 ---> 0:52:46.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. Bye.
