[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:00:44.000 ] Speaker A : Hello everyone. I'm Daniel, part of Arundao. Happy to be here today and have a few folks very interested in Dao governance and specifically anti capture. So Spencer Graham has accepted to come and share a little bit about the framework that he's developing. He's a contributor at Dao House, very much part of the core, as well as other protocols, and he's been doing some amazing thinking in this space. So I'm very excited for him to share this piece that I particularly fell in love with and I find it to be pretty fundamental to the very idea of what a Dao is. So Spencer, over to you. If you'd like to add anything about yourself or context, please feel free to the floor is yours.
[ 0:00:45.000 ---> 0:15:19.000 ] Speaker B : Awesome. Thanks Daniel. And thanks everybody, for having me here at Endow. I'm really excited to share some of these ideas that I've been thinking about and kind of see what you think. So I guess I'll just get going. I have a brief sort of intro here. Daniel kind of introduced me quite well. I spend most of my time these days at Dow House. I've been working full time, was basically the Dao space for almost a couple of years. Started off a little bit more at Raid Guild, but have done more recently at Dow House and a few other projects as well, sort of at various times in various places in the space. The reason I bring up Dow House here is that the background for all of this was a couple years ago where Dow House was just kind of getting started. And when I was just getting started at Was, there were really not many games in town when it came to creating a Dao. There was Dow House, there was Aragon, Dowstack Colony, and I'm probably forgetting a couple others. And pretty shortly thereafter we had things like Compound Governor and the template that MakerDAO is using, but outside of that there was not a ton. And then like nine months ago, maybe a year ago now, time moves quickly. I don't really remember exactly when we had this explosion of Dao activity, like all these new people jumping in, thinking about DAOs, building new Dow tools, starting new Dows, on and on and on. And it was amazing. And it really forced me, in the context that I was sort of experiencing as a contributor to Dow House to better understand Dow House's place in all of that, but also why I was having this reaction that some of the new things that were coming up weren't quite dows, even though people were talking about them as dows. And that was both something that I felt emotionally, but also couldn't at that point, articulate intellectually why. So I kind of started on this sort of personal journey to figure that out and through multiple fits and starts and dead ends and going backwards and getting feedback, what I ended up landing on is what we're now calling the Anti Capture framework. And originally it was meant to answer for me the answer to the question like what is actually a dow? What is a dow actually? But I think it has the promise to help us address a number of other questions. So I'm talking about it less now as how to define a Dao and more about this concept of capture resistant governance which we'll get into in a second. But where I really hope that Anticapture can play a role in this ecosystem is creating a shared language and a foundation on which to build knowledge and practices relating to that concept of capture resistant governance, decentralized communities, web, three dows, power dynamics, all of this stuff that is sort of boiling in this space. So shared language and kind of this foundation for building on top and then supporting disciplined exploration and debate and discussion. I think a lot of times what we see right now in this space is like people sort of shouting past each other because they don't have a shared language and they don't have a shared framework for talking about what they're talking about. Hopefully anticapture can help there. And then finally, what I hope this becomes is a community of practice or a community of research sort of spread across lots of different other communities or sort of inside of and together with lots of other different communities to better understand what's going on here and to build on top of it and to really attack this question at the ground level. Some of the values that I've started to ascribe to what I've been doing and what I hope this can become is focus first and foremost on first principles and be as non prescriptive as possible. Earlier versions of this I think were a little bit too prescriptive, could have been interpreted a little bit too much as telling people how they should build their dow and what a dow is and what a dow isn't in a way that didn't allow people to be creative with how they constructed what they were doing. So Anticapture now is attempting to be extremely unappinionated about and then sort of not making value judgments, just creating the foundations or the framework with which to think about those things. I myself have opinions based on those but that is not part of the Anticapture framework. It's also meant to be modular and facilitating permissionless contribution to the concept and the frameworks themselves. And we'll get to that kind of at the end and where I think that can go okay, so that's like all sort of throat clearing. Before I dig in, I just want to invite everybody as I'm kind of talking through this stuff, I want to invite people to interrupt me or raise their hands or ask questions. This is a little bit challenging to describe in a linear fashion. There's lots of interleaving components. As much as I have tried to make it modular so it's not really a linear kind of thing. So if you have questions, even if you think they might be skipping ahead, or even if you think they might be sort of like reaching backwards to something I've already talked about, please do chime in. It might actually be helpful for everybody to hear your question and have a discussion around that. Okay, so I'm going to actually start with resources and this concept before we get into the framework itself. And the reason I think is that what really helped me understand the weight of all of this is that one of the big challenges that we as society face is that there are increasing benefits to pooling our resources together. We can do more when we kind of pool resources together or have shared resources and solve bigger problems, more important problems, build better stuff than we can ever hope to acting just individually with our own resources. However, there's also lots of challenges and costs that get created. The larger the pool of resources is, the larger the things that we're sharing are. And those are some of the big challenges in governance. This kind of gets to the coast theorem and theory of the firm kind of stuff where there's all these transaction costs sort of on the one side in a marketplace. But there's also this coordination costs inside of an organization. The bigger that organization gets, the harder it becomes to manage that. And what I have started to realize is that a lot of those coordination costs are associated with introducing protections and sort of this like scaffolding to prevent those shared resources from getting captured by the people that are in the organization. I could talk about that for a long time but I'm going to stop because there's more to get to. But I wanted to start here because that's really the lens with which I have started to best understand why this stuff is a problem or like there's a problem here in the first place. So I mentioned the word capture and it's in the title of the thing. It probably means a lot of different things to a lot of different people. But the way that I'm defining it within this context is a diversion of shared resources. So resources that have been pooled together that people are sharing to do something, that they are governing, to take actions to solve some problem together, a diversion of those resources for private benefit. And there's a gazillion examples of this. Our society is riddled with capture. Our governments have been captured by big corporations for years and years and also by politicians who take bribes and who push things in their own direction and who make stock trades based on insider information. It's bad, but that is capture. Diversion of shared resources for private benefit. We now, as of like three years ago, for the first time I think ever have actual tools to have actual capture, create actual, capture resistant governance. So instead of creating, trying to simulate this stuff with this legal system and layers upon layers of power structures and hierarchy, we now actually, I think, have the tools to prevent capture of resources in a fundamental way. And I'll get into all of that as part of the framework. But this is what I'm focused on. We have these new tools. Let's think about them as best we can and try to use them to create better ways of working together and pooling our resources so we can actually do big, important stuff and solve big, important problems. Okay, this is the Anticapture framework. This is it. There's four pieces of it, and they all look very basic, and in a sense, they all are very basic, but we're going to step through each of them one at a time because there's a fair amount of nuance and detail within them, and we're definitely not going to get to it at all of it today. And I definitely have not been able to understand all of it. And that's kind of why I wanted to come here and talk about it and hopefully inspire everybody to help with it. But there's really four components networks, agents. We can also think of those as persons, resources, as I hinted at before, and actions. And each action has four phases, so we'll get into it now. Okay, so networks, why are we talking about networks? Really what we're using networks to do is model groups of people or groups of agents. Anytime you have multiple people that are related in some way, we can model that as a network. There's probably several different types of networks that we can describe with this framework that we have for our purposes today. Easiest to think about a network as just one way to model an organization. So an organization is a network, and the members of that organization or the members of the individuals inside of that network, we can model them as agents. And one of the reasons that we're using this language here is it kind of gives us access to a long history and literature of network analysis. And we can hopefully at some point start to do more formal analysis of this stuff using the mechanisms or the concept of networks and agent based modeling. So that's a network and then agents. I have also been recommended to start calling them persons because agents tend to mean something from a legal perspective. So you might hear me talk about agents and persons at different points, but really they mean the same thing. Any questions? At this point? It's still simple. We're getting into the thornier stuff in a second. Okay. All right, so we've already seen these three boxes here. I'll get a little bit into more detail here. So many things within a network can be modeled as shared resources. What are shared resources? Shared resources are anything that multiple people multiple agents. In other words, a network can actually control collectively. So there are certain types of resources that might be able to be influenced in some way by outside people, by other people, but really are only fundamentally at the end of the day controlled by an individual. So those are only private resources. So an individual person's attention, an individual person's time at the end of the day barring like physical coercion which we're not even going to talk about here, those are yours to decide what to do with. You might be influenced to change your mind about how you're spending your time or paying attention but ultimately they are yours. On the other hand, there are things that are resources that are shared or can be shared. And by shared I mean able to be governed and controlled fundamentally by a collective or by a group or by an organization or more generally. So public ethereum state is a primary example here, but so are coordination mechanisms. So including a smart contract or governance policies or certain things that actually control the way other things are controlled.
[ 0:15:20.000 ---> 0:15:23.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. Spencer, we have Sandy who has a question.
[ 0:15:25.000 ---> 0:15:26.000 ] Speaker B : Oh yeah, go ahead.
[ 0:15:27.000 ---> 0:15:43.000 ] Speaker C : Hi, I was just wondering where you would put the owner of the Discord or the Twitter accounts or any of these other resources that we're using to communicate and organize on but tend to be belonging to one.
[ 0:15:46.000 ---> 0:25:00.000 ] Speaker B : So a Discord server is kind of a coordination mechanism. You can call it like a communication mechanism in a sense that is absolutely something that a network can either share control of or more realistically, today they are delegating somebody or trusting somebody to control it on their behalf. So in a sense I forget the name but the person who starts a discord server, the admin of the Discord server, the owner of it right now, there's not a great way to actually put that in control of the network as a whole. So as we'll see that's a pretty big risk factor that is a capture vector that exists. So a common theme for me now that I kind of have this language is sort of identifying things that are capture vectors. And one thing I really hope that we can do in the Dow space is over time it's not going to be fast, but over time start to bring more things into the world of web three and smart contracts. And Blockchains and the true Web Three tech stack so that we can actually control them collectively rather than relying on an individual to do so. But that's a great example of a coordination mechanism that should be shared within networks right now but is not as shared as not controlled in a shared way as much as it should be. Okay, resources a little bit tricky. I'll try to talk a little bit more about different examples of resources as we move on. Okay. So the final section here is the biggest section, but it's about actions. So the concept here is that everything, this might sound circular or sort of tautological, but everything that everybody does is an action. And actions in this framework have four phases. So it starts with you could kind of put the starting point at any point. But I have decided that just for simplicity here we're going to talk about things as starting with a proposed phase, moving to the decide phase to execute and then to evaluate. So actions are cyclical because typically actions lead to evaluation, which leads to new information, which leads to a new action to take, or multiple options for actions to take. And importantly, I don't know if you can see it in the screen here, but I've tried to put some little squares or rectangles inside of each of these rectangles to visualize the idea that actions are also recursive. So inside of each phase are other actions that are sort of embedded in each phase. So I as an individual, my brain cells are sort of going through this loop inside of my brain. Different parts of my brain are doing this and then that's leading to my individual actions, which then might be inside of some broader networks. Actions that we're taking is a little bit tricky. The recursion is a little bit challenging at first, but I think it really unlocks sort of a simpler way of thinking about all of this stuff and sort of parsimonious way of modeling these things. So bear with me a little bit on that. So I'm going to step through each of these because each of these are pretty important, especially Decide and execute. And this is where we're going to actually get some dow kind of language. And you can see that on the left here with centralized and decentralized. So what happens in the proposed phase? So in the proposed phase, basically we ask the question what are the options on the table? Or somebody brings an option to the table and it might be one option, two options, three options, four options. But they're basically saying I propose that we do one of these things or I propose that we do X or Y and maybe somebody else proposes Z. What I want to make sure that we're focusing on each of these phases is where the phase kind of has, where there's a vector to capture shared resources inside of that phase of action. So remember, we're trying to prevent capture of the resources that we are sharing. And so each phase might introduce some vulnerabilities or some vectors. That where shared resources can be captured. And one example here is that again, this is one of the challenges of this being a linear talk. We'll see that execution is really important. So I'm going to pause on this second bullet and we'll come back to it. But what I want you guys to all notice is as an example of a shared resource here within the proposed phase. So this network or a network might have a particular capacity to process new actions. There's attention. That kind of capacity is definitely a scarce resource. So that network sort of has collectively this resource that is described by their capacity to process new actions. Every new proposal that we introduce draws down is basically drawing against that capacity. So there's a trade off that we have to make here. If we allow anybody to introduce a new proposal and we allow the proposed phase to be hyper decentralized, then we're actually drawing down against this shared resource. And so we need to think a little bit about how that works. And what a lot of Dao frameworks have done is they said okay, anybody can make a proposal but then to get to the next phase, somebody within the network, within the Dao needs to sort of sponsor it or approve it to get to the next phase. And there's many ways of doing that but often we have this, what looks like a little bit of a funky thing where we have hyper decentralized ability to bring something to the table, but then a little bit of a membrane or a barrier towards moving it to the next phase. But I think it's really important that from an anti capture or capture resistance perspective that the proposed phase be decentralized, be something that anybody, especially anybody within the network can bring something new to the table. And that's especially the case in more formal Dow frameworks where the only things that you can actually take actions on as a network, as a Dow are things that have been proposed formally. So you can imagine if everybody can make like everybody in the world can make a decision about something but only one person in the world can decide or can propose what that decision should be about, then that one person has all of the power and all of the control and they have then basically captured what's happening. So it's important to support or kind of foster decentralization within the proposed phase. Okay, next is decide. What I've realized is that the decide phase doesn't actually have any shared resources at stake. So even if the decide phase is highly decentralized or highly centralized and somebody has say like a ton of influence over what gets decided, that by itself does not mean that there has been capture and we'll see the reverse of this in a second as well. So there's actually quite a lot of flexibility within the decide phase about how Dows or communities can go about making decisions if as we'll see they have a decentralized or distributed execute phase. I know that sounds a little bit confusing right now, but I'm just going to go right ahead to the execute phase because this is where the meat is. Sandy, go ahead.
[ 0:25:02.000 ---> 0:25:05.000 ] Speaker C : So a couple of questions.
[ 0:25:05.000 ---> 0:25:06.000 ] Speaker B : Sure.
[ 0:25:08.000 ---> 0:25:34.000 ] Speaker C : Well for one, I've been learning a lot about citizen assemblies. And what seems to be missing in a lot of these kinds of governance models is the deliberation phase. So you say decide to execution, but decide to me seems like a vote. So there's this whole period of time before a vote which is like the Deliberation piece of it, which is crucial.
[ 0:25:34.000 ---> 0:25:35.000 ] Speaker D : Right?
[ 0:25:35.000 ---> 0:27:12.000 ] Speaker C : It's how you're engaging your community, how you're having these discussions. There are tools out there for that. I just think it's something that's really missing in a lot of these conversations. But the one tool that I found really promising is this idea of citizen assemblies because I feel like a lot of Dows are now leaning towards delegated powers and I'm going to delegate. I can't be there for every conversation, so I'm going to delegate. I trust this person. Which is a whole nother interesting thing about how do you trust people in a Dow and reputation points. And all of these things to me seem to be kind of like we're just rewarding people that are kind of developing the most content or the loudest people. And that seems like a whole capturing process going on right before our eyes. And the citizen assembly is really about randomizing, almost like a jury and selecting from your community a smaller group of people that are more they're fairly sorted to represent your community and so then they get kind of tasked with this deliberation process and then making recommendations to be voted on. And I think that that is something very interesting that could be added to this kind of process that would be maybe even more fair than what we're seeing developing right now.
[ 0:27:13.000 ---> 0:28:02.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, totally. The decide phase, as I conceptualize it, includes deliberation, includes all of the processes of a set of people inside of a network or even brain cells doing all the things that lead to them making a decision. Once the options are on the table, the decide phase starts. And that includes deliberation, discussion, debate, persuasion, all of that. And all the possibilities for how that can work are sort of encapsulated within the decide phase. Okay, we have a few other questions here. I think.
[ 0:28:05.000 ---> 0:28:38.000 ] Speaker E : I want to plus one, what Sandy said. I think one way to capture that is you've talked about the shared resource in the proposal phase being the attention. And I think that that is here in space. So I think noting the fact that attention is a shared resource in this phase is also critical. Attention, maybe knowledge. I don't have a good sense of what your taxonomy of resources is, but I can think of a number of resources, shared resources that play in here.
[ 0:28:40.000 ---> 0:29:12.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I was kind of mentioning before there's a lot of nuance that I have not really approached yet. And I think that's an excellent example of stuff like it's kind of there, but definitely not as much and as built out as it needs to be. I think there's a lot of stuff that needs to be teased out more. And that's a great example. Thank you. I think we have is that opera?
[ 0:29:13.000 ---> 0:29:57.000 ] Speaker F : Yeah, I thought it was. First, thank you so much for the presentation. It's really quite insightful. And I also just was thinking about what Sandy was saying because I also feel that in the decide phase, especially because you mentioned that something that happens is persuasion. And in accordance with so I guess in order to reduce capture, this actually is a phase that it could have very high capture risk depending on how those decisions are made. For example, if you just have one thought leader that can easily persuade others. And I guess that's just a human problem that we have to solve, isn't it?
[ 0:29:58.000 ---> 0:36:52.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. The claim that I'm sort of implicitly making here is that there's two types of power. One type of power is sort of influence or like social power, in a sense. I can kind of convince you of something and you'll sort of follow me in that. Another sort of power is fundamental power. I can make something happen. Literally. The marker of the if I don't have fundamental power is that I actually have to convince you to do it with me. Okay. The decide phase is sort of the domain of influence. So absolutely there is a risk of capture by people with a high degree of influence in some fashion. But that alone is not enough to sort of consolidate the capture that happens primarily within the execute phase. So the execute phase is actually backing up a little bit in organizations in the way we think about everything. And I've started to notice this more and more as I've had this new language in my head. Everybody talks about organizations making decisions. Everybody talks about executives making decisions. What they don't talk about is the actual action associated with that decision. They sort of lump the action into the decision itself. And I think that's a mistake, but it's understandable because in traditional organizations, the power to decide and the power to execute on the thing that actually changes or impacts the shared resource are bundled together. Typically, like you have an executive or a CEO or something, or the president or somebody at the top or somebody sort of in the hierarchy. At the top of the hierarchy, they have both powers. And that's because of the way we've traditionally had to organize ourselves and structure the way that our organizations work. I think what is really unique about smart contracts and what they enable for Dows is that we can separate the two. So no longer is the person or the people or sometimes they're the same, but we've separate them. So no longer is it required that the power to make the final decision and the power to execute the action decided by that decision no longer are those the same thing. And we can see this in well actually, to explain that a little bit further, I'll talk about execute a little bit more. So execute is the phase in which something, an option or an action that has been selected is actually put into action. So in a Dow like on chain, the transaction is actually sent to send the funds somewhere else. The transaction is actually sent to give somebody new shares in the Dow. The action is actually sent to upgrade that contract that the Dow controls or the literal transaction changing the state of the blockchain that is separate from all of the decisions, like all of everything associated with how we got to the point where we made that decision even before we took the action. So you can think of like the clearest way to understand this is looking at constructions like snapshot and a multisig. So those are separate, right? Like the decision is made by some amorphous group of token holders voting in this off chain snapshot vote, the action is executed by the handful of multisig signers that turn the keys to make the transaction go to change the state of the blockchain. So that is execute and decide very separate. The problem with that, of course, is that we have very concentrated execution powers even though we have very widespread decision making powers or decision making influence. So that is a phenomenal like that is the primary example of a capture vector within the execute phase, even though the decide phase was extremely decentralized. If the execute phase is concentrated or centralized, then we have real problems. Then we're basically reducing our organization to trusting several people. Now, that's better than having to trust a single CEO, certainly, but it falls short in my view and this is me inserting my opinions now it falls short, in my view, from what we can accomplish with the tools that we now have. And what we can accomplish is we can decentralize or distribute the executive power. So examples of this are Dows that have on chain voting, basically. So voting in those cases is like a formal way of deciding, but also the way in which actions are executed. The execute phase is also primarily where the autonomy portion or kind of property of a Dow comes from. Dows are decentralized, autonomous organizations. The autonomy really comes from the execute phase being something that cannot be changed by somebody that is outside of the network. If somebody outside the network has the power to change or to actually execute actions that involve the network's shared resources, then that network is not actually autonomous. This is, of course, a spectrum, but this is where I believe that the autonomy part of DAOs or sort of similar types of organizations primarily comes from. All right, there's a lot more to say about execute and I definitely have not discovered all of it myself either. Does anybody have questions or thoughts here?
[ 0:37:01.000 ---> 0:37:02.000 ] Speaker A : Abraham?
[ 0:37:05.000 ---> 0:37:59.000 ] Speaker F : So, in the case where, for example, I'll use. An example in Cosmos where we have proposals that go on chain and then embedded in the proposal is a software upgrade. After the proposal, if the majority of stakeholders vote for the proposal to pass, then obviously the decision and the execute phase phase become are totally interlinked. So I guess in this case the tendency toward capture just comes from the way that the vote is conducted. Yes, in this case. Where do the largest risks in your assessment, where are the largest risks toward to becoming vulnerable to capture when things happen like you mentioned that execute and decide are kind of bundled.
[ 0:38:02.000 ---> 0:38:34.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. So I think when execute and decide are I guess what I will say is that execute and sort of the final stage of the decide phase are bundled. Certainly there's discussion and debate and kind of maybe even like rough consensus that has been reached prior to that vote going or that proposal actually being voted about on chain. Is that fair to say?
[ 0:38:34.000 ---> 0:38:35.000 ] Speaker F : Yes.
[ 0:38:40.000 ---> 0:40:43.000 ] Speaker B : That'S pretty typical. And I think certainly there are going to be vectors for capture. There primarily in sort of influence, like I guess in an example would be vitalik may have some ability to capture the Ethereum ecosystem by really trying hard to push protocol decisions in a certain direction, given his fairly high degree of influence within the Ethereum ecosystem. That said, he does not have the sole and it's not on chain voting for protocol upgrades, but even without that, he certainly doesn't have the sole execution powers and that is typically left to the people who are running like miners are running nodes. And I suspect the same is actually not as familiar with Cosmos protocol upgrades. But one of the things that makes blockchains really powerful is that the primary shared resource is the public state that they create, that people can build off of. And the decision or the actions that individual miners or validators or node runners are taking is actually deciding which version of the public state they are following. So they are actually sort of a slightly different form of execution in kind of a traditional blockchain sort of way. It's like aggregated execution where everybody's individual actions aggregate together to create this or to basically select and act on this shared state. There are definitely vectors, but it's like one of the vectors for capture. But I would say it's like one of the better and most capture resistant forms, I would say. Andrea.
[ 0:40:46.000 ---> 0:41:52.000 ] Speaker E : Maybe this is an ask for things to add to the deck and there's some chance that what I'm asking for is already in the future. There's two things that I would like to have to sort of test out and think through this model. One is like a lot of examples of what you mean by capture. And my instinct is that there's sort of this continuum of capture. There's the things that everyone would say, oh yeah, that's totally that was a rug pull. Somebody went in and pulled stuff, did stuff, and then there's the stuff. Well, that wasn't really capture. That was vitalik influencing everybody and convincing people. Something that is sort of for his benefit or maybe it's not for his benefit. So that's squishiness. And I think that would be and then I think I'm interested in I bet that there are styles of capture. You talk about vectors and maybe what I'm looking for is like what are examples of different kinds of vectors that capture uses to get in. So I will leave that there. Either it's there on it later.
[ 0:41:52.000 ---> 0:47:01.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I think that there's like many different lenses or angles with which to view this stuff or understand it. I have kind of landed on the ones that have worked for me, but that doesn't mean that there aren't many others that will help other people as well. So those are two great ideas. Hold that thought, actually. Okay, we have about eleven minutes left, so I'm going to make sure that we kind of wrap up the meat of this. Execute really is the meat. So we're almost there. I just want to end with well, not end with, but the final section of this is the evaluate phase. I have not explored this very deeply yet. I'm sure there's a lot more to it here, but really, as you might imagine, evaluate is analyzing the impact of the thing that the action that we just took, of the action that was just executed or months ago or whatever. There is a lot of sort of influence to be gained, I think, in participating in evaluation. I don't think there's really concrete sort of fundamental power at stake here or fundamental really shared resources with the network at stake within evaluate. So that's why I haven't paid a ton of attention to it yet. But there is a ton of importance here with respect to transparency and access to information. By blocking off that access to information, you can absolutely prevent somebody from even thinking about something that would be appropriate for the network or change something that would prevent you from capturing the network. So there's definitely risks and capture vectors here within the evaluate phase, but I think at this point they primarily relate to information transparency, information access, that kind of thing. Okay. Yeah. So this is a sort of first case study, I guess, of using this framework. I'm actually going to speed through this a little bit. But I will say that I think what I've come to recognize is that dows, in the way that at least I think about them, are the strongest form of capture resistant governance that we have thus far. They're certainly not perfect and the examples of dows that we have today are certainly not perfect. But I think we can continue to push along this push towards a state where dows are really quite capture resistant. Here's how I have been thinking about Dows as using the anti capture framework and language. So a Dow in my view is a network of agents or persons that are governing a shared resource or maybe multiple shared resources and that governance is basically their common purpose. I'm leaving open common purpose here to be defined or interpreted extremely widely. But I think it's the sharing of resources and governance over their shared resources that make what might otherwise be a diffuse network an organization. But the really important thing about a Dow is that the power to execute actions that impact or leverage or manage or use those shared resources is distributed among all of the persons, all of the agents in the network, which is where the decentralization part comes from and nobody else. So no external agents have any power to execute actions that manage the Dows or that network's shared resources and that's where the autonomy part comes from. So if you have a group, a set of people where only a subset shares in the power to execute actions, then that group itself under my definition is not a Dow. The smaller group may be, but the larger network is not. That does not mean though that that larger network is not a valid organization that has lots of positive properties. But under my definition, as I've kind of derived from the anti capture framework, it does not qualify as a Dao because it leaves open fairly significant capture vectors based on the concentration of executive power. Go ahead, Tinny.
[ 0:47:03.000 ---> 0:47:41.000 ] Speaker C : I find that people are defining their DAOs by all kinds of various stages of turning into this Dow that they want to become. You have like an initial idea or a core team technically I guess in the tiny little team is the Dow. They start bringing people onto the discord. It's like we will eventually get decentralized. There's all kinds of different variations I think with Dao as an end goal. But they are calling themselves Dow in the process.
[ 0:47:41.000 ---> 0:47:42.000 ] Speaker B : Right?
[ 0:47:42.000 ---> 0:48:17.000 ] Speaker C : So I think that's something that's interesting. And I also think there are these gated levels of participation in Dows now. So there can be like 1000 people in a discord but only 25 people have the access to some of the channels or the voting or whatever's going on or you have to prove your expertise to get into a certain group. I think all of that's very interesting. I'm curious to hear your take on all that.
[ 0:48:18.000 ---> 0:50:46.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, it's definitely a lot fuzzier than these fairly hopefully clean words are sort of pretending it is. And I also think it's totally reasonable for a community to call itself a Dow aspirationally as long as they are demonstrating progression along that path. Where I personally get a little annoyed is when some group of people or like some founders are calling the thing they made a Dow when it's just like a discord server and they maintain all of the power for themselves. That said, there's tons of stuff. It's a spectrum. There's tons of stuff in between that is absolutely like its existence is going to challenge this fairly concrete definition. And that's great. I don't think this is the end point. This is kind of where I am currently sitting in how I've been thinking about Dows, and I guess I also want to underscore that. Let's see. Yeah, there are other forms of capture resistant governance, and that's kind of what this visual is hopefully articulating or communicating is there are other forms of capture resistant governance that are really great and better than what we've had in the traditional world. And so I don't want to denigrate those. What I think is helpful, though, is to create a little bit more of a discipline taxonomy of what these things are so that, one, we can talk about them in a way that we're not talking past each other. And two, I suspect there are different tool sets and different practices that apply to each of these different things. And so what I'm hoping happens is that this kind of shared understanding, what hopefully becomes a shared understanding, can help people focus on what they're building and build things for the right market segments. I'm not sure I fully answered all of your or addressed all of your interesting points, but I tried.
[ 0:50:46.000 ---> 0:51:08.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. We have a question from Paolo. In the chat. You said that in the evaluate phase, there is a big opportunity for influence to be gained when persons participate in the evaluate phase. Would you say that there should also be a risk of losing influence, and maybe that's why most orgs don't engage in the evaluate phase.
[ 0:51:10.000 ---> 0:51:30.000 ] Speaker B : Oh, that's so are you saying, Paolo, that there's this concept of so, like, if you misevaluate something, then that would be a reputation loss kind of kind of thing, and maybe that is why go ahead, please.
[ 0:51:31.000 ---> 0:52:10.000 ] Speaker G : Yeah, that's exactly it. I mean, if you look at traditional organizations, usually they make decisions, and then if a decision produces a bad, people maybe try to excuse themselves from responsibility and not participate in the evaluate phase because they don't want to get blamed for the bad decision. And I guess that we should have more participation in evaluating the decisions that were made in DAOs, but maybe we're not having that because nobody wants to take responsibility if something went wrong.
[ 0:52:10.000 ---> 0:52:11.000 ] Speaker B : Right.
[ 0:52:11.000 ---> 0:52:27.000 ] Speaker G : And the way you phrase it was, for me, a bit one sided in the sense that it was, if we participate, there's a lot to be gained. But I think that also people try not to participate because they fear that they can lose their reputation if they do.
[ 0:52:29.000 ---> 0:52:32.000 ] Speaker B : Almost certainly that's true. Yeah, I agree.
[ 0:52:39.000 ---> 0:52:51.000 ] Speaker A : The we have the question from Andrea. Does that mean that a Dao with subdos are in DAOs, or is that only if the subdos can control resources that are outside of their own sub area?
[ 0:52:53.000 ---> 0:53:24.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, subdows kind of challenge the autonomy part because the Dow sort of is like a subdow isn't really a subdow. Maybe if the parent Dow doesn't have some sort of control over what the subdow is doing. So I'm not really sure exactly where that fits. I would need to think about that. Yeah, there's some good stuff there. Andrew.
[ 0:53:27.000 ---> 0:53:57.000 ] Speaker D : I was wondering if and sorry if this has been discussed before, but I was wondering if any thought has been put into splitting the decision making phase into sort of two parts. One where you decide the goals and one where you decide and what actions are conducive to those goals. This is what we did when I worked in a housing co op. So we were part of a network and we decided on our ends and then separately from that we decided on means for achieving those ends, if that makes any sense.
[ 0:53:57.000 ---> 0:55:29.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, cool. I really like that. I'll sort of make a general comment and then I'll get to that. Specifically, one thing I probably could have been clearer about is that the way these phases are sort of constructed is meant to be sort of observational about how actions are taken rather than a prescription or like a recommendation for how organizations should actually practically go about it. I think there's a lot of excellent practical sort of advice or approaches that is a lot more detailed and effective than just thinking about actions within these four big phases that I've described. So I think your suggestion is a really interesting one from a practical perspective for Dows. And I think there's a lot of work that I would like to either do myself or see done. That kind of maps different practices back to the anti capture framework and helps both inform what different capture vectors might be, but also might help understand why those different practices are good or bad or better or worse or more interesting or more effective than potentially others.
[ 0:55:29.000 ---> 0:55:57.000 ] Speaker D : I see. And I was also wondering if I could briefly try and summarize some of the things that you said so I make sure I understand it correctly. I'm thinking so when you have a Dow, you have a bunch of people who come together and they decide to pool some resources like money or attention or things like that, but they need a coordination mechanism to figure out how to use those resources because they all have to agree on how to use them.
[ 0:55:57.000 ---> 0:55:57.000 ] Speaker B : Of course.
[ 0:55:59.000 ---> 0:56:23.000 ] Speaker D : I was wondering I forgot my question. I was going to say something like if the attention making phase where you have to decide the decision making phase, we have to decide when people submit proposals and you have to oh, I'm sorry. Running out of time. Okay. I don't know if can I continue my question there?
[ 0:56:25.000 ---> 0:56:26.000 ] Speaker A : Sorry, what was that?
[ 0:56:26.000 ---> 0:56:33.000 ] Speaker D : Sorry, I don't want to take everyone's time. Someone posted in the chat that we're out of time.
[ 0:56:33.000 ---> 0:57:10.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, unfortunately we're three minutes past the time, so I'm going to have to round it up. But if you like to give thank you, everyone, very much for coming. If you want to continue the conversation, I left the link there. We can continue chatting about it. Spencer, if you wouldn't mind maybe sharing your slides in there, either directly in the channel or you can send it to me and I'll share it with everyone there. Thank you, everyone, very much for attending. Great to have you. Amazing talk. Thanks, Spencer.
[ 0:57:10.000 ---> 0:57:28.000 ] Speaker B : Thanks, everybody. I will share with you, Daniel, because I got to do a couple of things, but in that will be a link to I spun up a new discord server to talk about this stuff more. I would love for people to join in there and yeah. Thank you, everybody. This was great.
[ 0:57:28.000 ---> 0:57:29.000 ] Speaker C : Thank you. Great job.
[ 0:57:29.000 ---> 0:57:31.000 ] Speaker G : Thank you. Hi.
