[ 0:00:16.000 ---> 0:01:47.000 ] Speaker A : Hello everyone. I'm Daniel. I'm part of the Arendao team. I'm very excited here today to have Angela and John, who I know for a number of years and to some degree I consider them some of my mentors in cybernetics and systems thinking. They both have tremendous experience, well over three decades each in these fields. So they're going to be sharing a little bit about this. Angela is at the center of system studies. She's an Emeritus Fellow for the center of System Studies, as I was saying, in the whole university. She's also a fellow in the British Cybernetics Society and has been an invited professor in multiple universities across Latin America, as well as working at the Meta Forum, one society NGO dedicated to developing Stafford's Beer legacy. Then John has 35 years of experience in the cooperative business sector. He's established and comMANAGED multiple businesses, including retail, manufacturing plants, chains of supermarkets and so on. And he's pioneered the use of the Viable System model, both in small organizations and larger cooperatives and eco communities, as well as co author a book with Angela called A Complexity Approach to Sustainability and he's also run workshops across multiple universities and countries and so on. So very much looking forward to what you guys have to share about this topic. Thanks again for being with us. John, over to you.
[ 0:01:47.000 ---> 0:21:09.000 ] Speaker B : Well, first of all, thank you very much for inviting me. We're seeing this as a way of reaching out to your community with some of the ideas that we've been working with for many decades. Both Andrew and I are quite passionate about the Viable System model as a model of organization from my point of view, because it bases organization on individual autonomy and creativity and frees people up in a particular context in order to work effectively. So the model has been an inspiration to both of us for many decades. So this is going to be a very brief introduction. Normally a week's course is about right to get some of the basic ideas over. We're going to try this in a few minutes. So the Viable System Model so basically comprehensive theory of organization based on principles from natural systems. This is Stafford Beer. When he was in his heyday as a manager in the UK, working in the UK steel industry, he was very dissatisfied with traditional approaches and started using these ideas which were hugely effective. And I think the point of this is that VSM is a practical tool. He didn't invent this to write papers and get very famous as a professor. He was a manager working in the steel industry in the 1960s. Very tough industry, very traditional industry. And this is a practical tool that he developed. This is the origins of it. Very soundly grounded in systems thinking. And for me, these two diagrams at the top are one of the basic transitions you have to make when you go from thinking in straight lines and logic and cause and effect and move over to thinking in patterns of relationships and whole systems interacting coevolving dances. So for me this is the whole basis of the transition from the linear way of thinking that we've got to systems thinking and it's a recursive structure. The Varbal system model, the principles of organization are so universal that they apply at all levels regardless of shape and size. So it doesn't really matter where you start. With any diagnosis you take your system in focus and whether it's the whole of a state or whether it's a bunch of people working in a garage around the back of the back of your house the same principles of organization. If you want viability you've got to have the same universal principles. And the idea of the Russian dolls is something to bear in mind as we go through this because recursivity is very much at the heart of the BSM and inspiration. This is where Stafford started because he didn't want to use traditional approaches. He looked at the way the body works, he looked at the patterns of relationships, how the nervous system works with the muscles and organs, looked for universal principles and made his model. And that's where he started. Took him years and years. And his book Brain of the Firm explains all that in great detail. So moving on to the basic structure this is about as simple as a VSM diagram gets which I think is a good thing to have in mind as we go forward. So you start with the circle which is the operation. This is the bits of the system you're looking at which actually do stuff. So doctors and nurses in a hospital, builders in a building site, teachers in schools, so on and so forth. You always have to have some sort of management which is embedded inside the operation. But for the model we draw it like this to tease it out so that you can be clear about the relationships between them and both of those interacting with an environment. So these are the three parts of any viable system you're looking at which obviously the same for any organization. But this is where Stafford started. The other thing to say at this point is that it's a wholly dynamic model. Things are moving backwards and forwards all the time. All the parts are in continuous dynamic interaction. And so there's always some sort of communication system. So in the body it's nerves and sensors. Now in society we'd have communications, the internet, internet of things and so on and so forth. But if you think of the model in these three units the operation some sort of management or regulation which we'll get onto later and then always the environment within which it operates. And for the work that Anj and I have done on sustainability having this environment on the left hand side really focuses your attention, opens up the VSM to all sorts of new applications and adding a bit of detail you can see basically the same three shapes now drawn more formally. And because the model is recursive you can see inside the operation three smaller viable systems. So what we got here is three viable systems working together inside an operation, coming together to form a larger viable system which is interacting with the environment on the left hand side. And inside the big environment you can see each of the three little viable systems has its own specific environment which always overlap. And this is just taking the model a little bit further. So the next thing to say is because this is a dynamic model because the whole essence of this is how you survive and thrive in an unpredictable, sometimes hostile environment. And the point you come to is that you must adapt quickly and effectively and this means real time information. This is probably becoming fairly universally accepted nowadays. When Stafford started this in the 1960s, this was just revolutionary thinking. But nowadays more and more people are using real time information to run their businesses and their organizations and it becomes much, much more accessible. Particularly with things like the Internet of things where everybody's getting information all the time to help you make your decisions. So some of the basic principles, if you're looking at the way one of the operational units, the bits that are actually doing the work for the system in focus, they are continuously interacting with their rapidly changing, complex, sometimes problematic environment. And it becomes absolutely clear when you're looking on this horizontal axis that the operation must have as much flexibility as possible to respond effectively. If the people working in there in an authoritarian organization and they have to refer to their senior management every time something changes, you just do not get the flexibility and the speed of response which is effective. So from the VSM point of view the autonomy of the operational units is absolutely fundamental to effective organization. This is one of the core principles which I think is why should be of interest to DAOs. However, if you look at the vertical axis you've got these three viable systems, the three little operational viable systems which need to cohere. They need to work together, they need to come together into a coherent larger system. So from some points of view you need to maximize autonomy, freedom on the horizontal axis. So the operational units need to be as free as possible, but there have to be some constraints on that autonomy in order to cohere into a whole, effectively coordinated, larger system. And the rule of this is kind of like fundamental to certainly my view of the VSM that you always maximize autonomy and you only limit it when there's an issue of system cohesion. And this of course is completely different from the normal approach where people expect people to do what they're told through command and control. Structures. And Beer made it absolutely clear that this is not the hierarchical model. This is not about authority and obedience, command and control. It's about giving people as much autonomy as they can, but always within the constraints of system cohesion. So from that point of view, the role of management changes. So management doesn't become a function where they make all the important decisions and then send those down, down through the pyramid to the people who are on the lower tiers. The job of the management becomes providing the glue which brings all the operational unions together into this larger system. And he doesn't refer to management, he refers to meta systems. Meta being over and above it's, got the overview, the higher level perspective on it. And he defined a meta system as a collection of subsystems which look after the operation element. So they cohere into that totality called a viable system. So again, he's breaking all the rules here. He's saying, okay, the management is a service, it's looking after the operation elements, it's not an authoritarian higher authority. So you move away from the thought of management as being in control, telling people what to do, to providing a service to enable all the autonomous parts to come together, which certainly in cooperatives, where I've always worked, this has been just the most wonderful approach to higher level management. It's different. It's not how the boss ensures everything is working properly through command and control, it's how things work together to create a larger, more effective whole system. And the final thing to say at this stage of the proceedings is that when you're doing a viable system diagnosis, you're always looking at the balance between these parts. So if you start with a very, very complex environment, you've always got to have the capacity. Cyber technicians talk about this rule of requisite variety, which is Ross Ashby, which goes back to certainly before Stafford was doing this work. So you're always looking at the balance to make sure that the capacity, the variety of one part is sufficient to deal with the other. So if, for example, your environment suddenly becomes much more complex for a whole variety of reasons, climate change being one of them, then you have to look at the operation and say, okay, we no longer have the capacity we need to deal with this environment, so we have to change it. And similarly, the metasystem, which is there to hold all the bits together, might say, whoa, the operation is suddenly ten times as big as it was a year ago. We just don't have the capacity we need to do our job properly. So all the time you're looking at these balances and trying to get the varieties of the various bits to match up so the thing works effectively. And this is where good design comes in. This is basically what you do in a diagnosis. You look at all these issues and you make sure that you've got a well organized, effective harmonious system in focus through the balance of these various systems. So summing up this bit. We've got recursions, we've got the operation carrying out primary activities in an unpredictable environment, a metasystem to hold those operation units together, maximize an operational autonomy limited only by system cohesion, the dynamic coevolving interactions and everything being imbalanced, which is the basic unit. So all of this is just looking at these three elements the environment, the operation and the metasystem in systems terms. So one thing to mention at this point is that certainly from the point of view of DAOs, as far as we understand it, Nanja and I are both learning this. So we hope we don't say anything too silly. But autonomy is fundamental in both approaches and decision making is decentralized. I think the point I wanted to make here is that the VSM is always looking at the way that you deal with both decentralization from the point of flexibility in a requisite variety for the operation and the centralization that you need in order to do the coordination of the operational units. And one of the things that Stafford said that took me a while to get my head around was that the VSM is both centralized and decentralized at the same time. So it's not a purely decentralized organization, it's both decentralized and centralized. And this is kind of a yin yang. It's much more of an Eastern approach which Stafford was very open to, to say, okay, these supposed opposites aren't mutually exclusive, they work together in a coordinated way. So the question now is how does the meta system ensure the operational parts work together as a case of whole? And the answer is that Stafford designed these five systems. First system is the operation which we've talked about before. You then move on to the four metasystemic functions, systems Two, Three, Four and five. System Two starts with the observation that in all interactive systems, if you've got autonomous working parts interacting, there will always be problematic interactions. And you need to design a system too in order to make sure that these problematic interactions are dealt with in advance. So a lot of people talk about it as coordination, which is an important part of it. We like to use the word harmonization more. It's a bit like making sure all the instruments of the orchestra are in tune together so that everybody's working in the same basic way. So System Two is about standards, about production schedules, about timetables and it's basically just making sure that all the problematic interactions are dealt with in advance so that they don't become a problem. So once you've done that, you can move on to System Three, which has this is based on the base brain at the top of the spinal column which is continuously receiving information from all the different parts of the system in focus. And its job is looking for optimization, looking for synergies, looking for ways of saying, OK, we've got all these independent operational units doing their stuff in isolation. If we bring them all together, what more can we do? And there's this lovely phrase that Stafford uses sometimes, which is an explosion of potential that suddenly if you start working these things together as a whole system, rather than isolated parts, you just get all these opportunities which don't arise in any other way. So you maximize autonomy at the system one level to give people the flexibility, you deal with all the problematic interactions and then you say, okay, from our higher viewpoint, what can we do to make all these bits work together to make the whole thing more effective? And that's system three. And then the other thing you need is to make sure you can adapt to changes in the outside world. So every viable system has a system Four, which looks outside, checks the outside world based on the midbrain of all of us, comes out with plans, looks for innovations, looks, and fundamentally makes sure that the system focus can adapt as things change. And finally, a system Five, which is probably best thought of as identity. It's okay, so who are we? What are we about? What sort of principles have we got? What's our vision and values? And this is the closure of the whole thing. It basically sets the ground rules for the entire organization. So those are the five systems, and a lot of people don't go any further than that. But the model is fundamentally about these five systems and the intricate interactions which go on between them. And I'll do this very briefly because this can get quite complicated. The best way to think about this is to you divide any viable system into two bits. You have the internal day to day inside and now stuff, which we talked about in terms of systems one, Two and three, working with the outside world, doing the job, providing the goods and services, dealing with the problems, looking for synergies and making sure the whole thing is run incredibly effectively. And that's the inside and now systems Three, Four and Five are looking outside, making plans, thinking about the future, looking for threats and opportunities, and doing that in the context of both the stuff that's going on outside and the information coming up to system Three. And system Three, as you can see, is in both parts of these two fundamental parts of ESM which we're looking at now. And that's probably the most useful division you can make when you're working with a viable system. And the point of this is that systems One, Two, Three, because they're balancing both centralization and decentralization, they ensure fast, effective responses. So you've got through the autonomy, but still provide the advantage of coordinated synergistic interactions. So it's kind of a best of both worlds. So they're looking at both decentralization and centralization to get the benefits of both. And the three, four, five complex at the top is doing the same thing, saying, okay, how can we work with innovative blue sky dreamers who are coming up with fantastic ideas all the time, and the down to earth practicalities of the people in System Three who are saying, come on, there's seven people off sick today. We can't possibly do this, and we've got bills to pay, and so on and so forth. So again, you're getting the benefits of these two different perspectives, the very innovative blue sky ideas and the practicalities. And I think that's about as far as I go. So at this point, I hand over to Angela. I think maybe should we do some clarifications here, Daniel? If there's any clarifications for Angela moves on to her bit.
[ 0:21:09.000 ---> 0:21:21.000 ] Speaker A : Let me see, please. If anyone has any questions or doubts, anything that's not clear or that you might be wondering, let me know. I see one hand raised, please. Paolo, go for it.
[ 0:21:24.000 ---> 0:21:41.000 ] Speaker C : Hi. Thank you. John, I wanted to ask, you said at a certain point that applying this model into Dows, the decentralized autonomous units must work together in a cohesive whole, right?
[ 0:21:42.000 ---> 0:21:42.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 0:21:42.000 ---> 0:21:56.000 ] Speaker C : And that's why I want to ask you if I understood this correctly, because they need to work in a cohesive whole. That's why it's also needed the meta or management system as well.
[ 0:21:56.000 ---> 0:22:09.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, correct. That's exactly right. So if you got all these and you want them to work together, then you need the meta system, and then you need the four meta systemic functions, which I was talking about in the presentation.
[ 0:22:11.000 ---> 0:23:09.000 ] Speaker C : I get a sense that and maybe I'm being too extreme here, so don't take me literally, but some people that are in Dao land, they don't prioritize cohesion that much, and they can even say that collision is not needed. All the units can be totally centralized, running in their own directions, and eventually something will come up out of that. So I guess that this could be one of the particularities of Dows is that system and whole organization collision is not really that much of a priority as it used to be in the previous days of organizations, that the boundary between what's inside the organization and what's outside the organization was very clear. In Dows, that's not so much the case. And so the cohesion of the units inside the Dow, it's maybe something a bit more fluid and a bit more undefined, let's say.
[ 0:23:10.000 ---> 0:24:47.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I'm sure that's right. And other people come to similar conclusions. There was a guy called Ricardo Semmel who did a lot of work on the company, and he came to the conclusion it was better to split it all up into small units and just let them run on their own and do their own thing and just interact in a very informal matter. But for me, it's absolutely clear that if you look at the history of evolution over history, autonomous parts have come together to form larger and larger holes which culminated in you and me. And I mean, you and I, we could have our liver on a table and our heart on a table and our kidneys and so on and so forth all working independently. But the advantages are coming together. I mean, this is why I love Stafford's phrase the explosion of potential that suddenly there's so much more you can do by working together. It's the whole theory of teams and wires and cooperatives that we could all just have our own one man business, one man, one woman business and work as individuals. But when you start working together there's just so much more you can achieve. Personally, I think it's one of the things about society at the moment that a lot of the organizations I work with tend to work in isolation and I think really working together is how we create the metasystems to get all the parts working together for the future of humanity. I think it's one of the fundamental bits. So it's an interesting discussion but I'm aware that DAOs do put the emphasis on decentralization and then informal relations between them.
[ 0:24:47.000 ---> 0:25:04.000 ] Speaker D : I'm going to try to go further into the comparison between BSM and Dao. That's what I'm going to do next. So hopefully we will be able to clarify to go deeper into this comparison and these differences by the end of the next bit of the presentation.
[ 0:25:05.000 ---> 0:25:06.000 ] Speaker C : Awesome.
[ 0:25:07.000 ---> 0:25:09.000 ] Speaker B : Okay. Was another question, I think, or was.
[ 0:25:09.000 ---> 0:25:12.000 ] Speaker A : That I believe it's been withdrawn.
[ 0:25:12.000 ---> 0:25:17.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, great. I'll stop sharing and then hand over to Angela.
[ 0:25:18.000 ---> 0:25:29.000 ] Speaker D : Okay. Can you see my screen now?
[ 0:25:29.000 ---> 0:25:31.000 ] Speaker B : Yep. Looking good.
[ 0:25:32.000 ---> 0:45:49.000 ] Speaker D : Right, before I start, just a little bit extra about my background. I am a computer and systems engineer who abandoned programming and computers when I did my PhD in organizational cybernetics. And I just got fascinated with this theory and I've been just focusing on the organizational aspects of more than in the technology. But I am completely fascinated with learning about Dows and I am really thankful with Danielle because that's giving me an excuse to try to go deeper and understand and I'm just full of questions. So please forgive my ignorance because I'm just beginning to discover and do a bit of research and I'm finding fascinating parallels. So I'm going to try to show you now that John has introduced you to the theory the things in which I can see that they are similar and different, the two theories. So on one side, both of these theories came from the inspiration of both theories came from the understanding of organizations as neural networks. This was something that the first pioneers have. Warren McCullough, that was Stafford Beer's mentor and he was the first person who did a mathematical model of the brain. And he was the pioneer of the idea of neural networks that years later give birth to the Internet. So there is a lot of similarities in the basic idea. So there is no surprising that we can find things in which there are very complementary things in which they are different. So I'm going to try to highlight the bits that I see with my limited understanding of Dows that I see now in this moment that are compatible and difference. First thing that I can see is that Dows take the idea of a decentralized autonomous organization very much, let's say in a very practical way with a huge input of computer power. The new technologies that obviously when Stafford invented the VSM that didn't exist, it was in his brain. He had an intuition that that was possible, but it wasn't there. The VSM is more related with the way that the brain interacts with the body. So, I mean, in that respect, it's a very holistic model in which he's trying to understand all these neurological interactions but thinking as much and the body and the organs on the body and the physiological performance of the different parts of the body in regards to and the brain as a way of coordinating all these physiological functions. When we talk about Dows, the idea of the invention of the blockchain obviously has been very important because blockchain has the potential to completely transform organizations using cryptocurrency. And it is very important, the idea of establishing trust through smart contracts and automatic decision making. Those ideas didn't exist before. Stafford didn't know about that. This is completely new to us and there is a huge question that comes up for me is fascinating how blockchain affects organizational design and decision making and how can we learn, let's say, traditional motor, traditional cyberneticians for these new ideas and vice versa. Reading about it, I see people saying that blockchain is an invention as important as the internet because you don't need more intermediaries, you can empower consumers and you can create really innovative industry partners in a much more effective collaboration schemes. So this is all fascinating now. Now if you see the way that blockchain works, the idea of smart contracts and consensus algorithms is fundamental for automation. These smart contracts are like the rules of the game that are computer coded, that are the ones that have some limitations because once you have agreed them, they cannot be changed. But the fact that they work means that you remove human judgment and you have a lot more of real distributed freedom and the use of consensus algorithms. Also the fact of eliminating intermediaries, allowing different nodes of the network to work, to collaborating in a more independent way and having more resilience in the sense that being able to work even if there is a failure in one part of the network, all these issues give this technology enormous power. So seeing Dows as a combination of smart contracts linked together and connected with the Internet of things, big devices, big data analytics and artificial intelligence makes of this technology something that is creating a context that we didn't have before and is really opening up all sorts of new possibilities. That is, I'm sure that what makes this community so excited about the new possibilities. Now, we can see some similarities between the two theories. Like for instance, those are member owned organizations with no centralized leadership. They are decentralized, autonomous, inspiring Neural Networks. BSM as well is not member owned, but is member led organizations with no centralized leadership. Decentralized, autonomous, Inspiring Neural Networks. So at that level, we have two theories that are quite compatible, quite similar. Dows started like a form of venture capital based in open source without a typical management structure. And BSM, let's say that it's just a not typical management structure. It's what we talk meta systemic management is what Jung was explaining that it's a management that is not hierarchical, it's not top down management, it's a management that is there to service the operations. So in that respect, let's say that if we see the technological replacement of management in DAOs and the functional idea of metasystemic management, both of them has this common purpose that is to serve operations, not to impose anything on operations. DAOs talk about distributed governance and put it into practice to smart contracts and consensus mechanisms. It is the actors who agreed upon the rules that govern the blockchain. In the VSM we have also the idea of distributed governance. But we're not distributing governance to technology, we are distributing governance to structure and a completely different way of understanding a structure and organization that includes self regulated nodes. So each one of the nodes in the neural network is self regulated. Also the way of guaranteeing self regulation is having very clear share rules of the game that needs to be agreed by the agents, share information and knowledge. This is fundamental in BSM. The only way to have a completely decentralized, self regulated neural network kind of organization is if you can share information, share knowledge, share protocols, share process design. So that, I mean, you have shared language and shared technologies. That avoids continuous breakdowns between people and guarantees that everybody is sort of speaking the same language and acting according to the same kind of having the same kind of decisions. Also, the VSM will suggest to have very transparent contracting. And it also suggests as one of the most powerful ideas of self regulation, guaranteeing that there is the redundancy of potential command. So command is not centralized, but is redundant. So if there is any unstability in the network, any part of the network can retake control. And something similar happening in blockchain, we have any case of mismanagement, any point of failure does not affect the entire network. So the network is much more redundant. So there is also similarities in that respect. Now there are big differences with no doubt. So in terms of Dao, dao was created by software developers to automate decisions. And facilitate cryptocurrency transactions trying to eliminate human errors. And BSM was created by Beer as an effective nontraditional way of creating a neural network type of organization, a more effective way of organization with all these functions that John explained to you systems one that are self regulated nodes and the meta systemic role system 2345 that develop roles like policy, innovation, accountability, harmonizations and so on. In Dows we have organizations constructed by encoder rules that are based in software that are supposed to be transparent members controlled, non influenced by central governments, the records and the programs are ruled by made through the blockchain. And the idea is that fomente governance and trust among actors basically through the software, through the cryptography and control and reduce opportunism. So let's say that the focus on Dows is more on automatizing meta systemic transactions and decisions. The focus on the BSM is more on creating an organization, a way of distributing roles and responsibilities in an organization that allows an organization to be balanced in terms of having more self governed nodes and operating as a whole in a cohesive way. Regarding the differences, one of the main differences as well is that the VSM is a recursive model of organization. I haven't seen yet the ideas of Dows at this point. I have read a lot and I have made comparisons between complex active systems and bowel systems, for instance. And one of the main difference as well is that BSM is a recursive model of organization. So it means that at any level of organization, from the individual to teams, to groups of teams to businesses, to corporations, to nations, to regions, et cetera, at every level you can use the same distinctions to map the organization and to identify patterns of relationship in a very systemic way, unifying way. But the focus in the VSM mapping is to try to understand each one of the nodes that are the ones that produce the produce of services. They are themselves viable systems. So each system one is in itself a viable system. That's what is represented here in this diagram that John has made, that is this idea of that inside each one of the nodes is itself a viable system, so should cope as well with the five systems. So this is a difference that I don't know how does it translate in terms of organizational design? If we wanted to expand massively the idea of Dows to design meta mega organizations worldwide, the other interesting comparison is between governance. So when you talk about those governance, what I understand is that they use coordinated, there is coordinated governance using tokens in a cryptocurrency wallet that grant voting powers. So the members need to have bought some tokens. The more tokens, the more voting power you have. Membership can be exchanged and members vote on via blockchain a series of proposals, performance can be tracked and again compensated because it's all electronic and there is the issue of inactive holders that is creating some issues in terms of effectiveness of governance. But we have a very decentralized and interesting governance structure in DAOs, in BSM we also have an idea of decentralized governance structure. But let's say that we have a way of understanding what we call metasystemic management. Like as John was explaining between system three, four, five and governance is basically the results from a balanced interaction between system three, four, five kind of roles. Four needs to be capable of absorbing environmental variety, three needs to be capable of managing internal organizational variety and system one will be the one that is absorbing the variety of direct interaction with customers and suppliers and so on in the environment. So system one is represented at each level of governance and basically the idea in the VSM is how do you generate these capabilities of self governance? And it does, it also with key performance indicators operating in real time. So in a way, Stafford Beer was one of the pioneers of the idea what is now called agile management. In those days there wasn't internet when he invented the model. So I mean this was just a dream 50 years ago. In the moment we have the technology, in this moment we can do real time management and people are just crazy about agile management, real time information and so on. And that's something that endows goes even further because you have automatized the processes and you can really measure performance electronically in a way that is quite interesting. But this is still the difference between what kind of organizations you can map and run as a Dao, what kind of organizations you can not yet map and run as a Dow. Now, there are clear challenges of Dows like for instance long standing issues regarding the way that the Dows will function in the real world. So I mean still things like unclear legal status, security issues like the 2016 scandal and breakdown of the cryptocurrencies human versus computer decision making, boating power, reproducing existing power structures. I mean, this is something that from a BSN perspective will be particularly concerned because if you have your voting power depends on the number of your financial power, then you will be reproducing existing power structures and not allowing the emergence of new more democratic power structures. So that's something that for me is a general question. Rather than a corporation, a Dow may end up functioning like a kind of general partnership that opens a really interesting field for organizational design. Some people consider that Dows are so innovative that they may completely change traditionally structured business. And I find it fascinating. And I do think that there is some truth behind it, because with no doubt, with this technology in the way that we can trust the technology and people can learn about it, we can really start replacing many ways of making transactions and operating in businesses that dows can resolve in a very interesting way. Now, certain business like for instance, things like land registry, supply chains, natural resources, peer to peer exchanges, smart properties, things like that can be modeled, mapped and run as Dows. There are other organizations in which the core of the organization is not just the economic transaction. And for these other organizations perhaps still the idea of Dows is far away from their landscape. So I mean, there's another big challenge for me in terms of how can we progress this idea to other kind of organizations in which perhaps need to have other priorities. Now, this statement that was a fundamentally new paradigm for organizational design, I can see the really exciting bits of it. Like for instance, things like automatized transactions. It's true that Dows can create new distributed products and services, order products and services, make a profit or loss, pay taxes, dividends, automatize, loss of decision making capabilities. This idea of supplementing the need for public documents related to rights, to ownership, that is fascinating. I mean, the consequences seems astonishing. No negative things, they still need to make money dows? No, they still have cost customers, shareholders, employees well, some may have independent contractors. The idea of being a distributed company, well, how are you going to harmonize the different regulations in different countries? The idea of peer to peer smart contract collaboration, to what extent can trust become replaced by just mathematics? It's true that certain kind of trust in terms of transactions that can be programmed very precisely can be eliminated. Lack of trust through those. There are still other issues that are beyond the just economic transactions that influence enormously reputation. And how can this not necessarily can be just replaced by so forth? And things like the very good things about it accountability, security, transparency, democracy there is still a lot that we need to clarify in those to make it really available and broadly speaking. So to conclude, basically what I can see is very open questions about the comparison between DAOs and BSM, that are questions that I am very happy to explore and I have no answers. Just questions for the time being, like how to further develop in DAOs idea and the variety of uses, how the VSM can provide an inspiration for further developing DAOs. Are there some aspects of the VSM theory that is a very established cybernetic theory, very robust, very well explored and used. There are hundreds and hundreds and a growing number of applications of the BSM every day. And how can these combined ideas of DAOs and BSM can help to build an architecture that can co govern society? This is a topic that both John and I are very interested because we've been working a lot on issues of fabrication of the BSM for sustainability, for societies, for cooperatives, for ecosystems and these kind of topics. So that's fascinating, the possibility of doing something at that level. How can these theories together help to solving one of the largest problems like poverty and so on, if we could apply them securely within and across organizations. And what can we learn from Dows and BSM towards 21st century organizational design? So, broad questions and well, that's it. That's what I wanted to share with you, a few references with all these issues.
[ 0:45:50.000 ---> 0:47:13.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much Angela and John for those fantastic presentations. It's been quite a lot to go through but this is a really extraordinary both summary of what's happening in DAOs. I'm surprised how much you have gone into the topic already since we first spoke only a couple of months ago and how in depth this comparison is. So thank you again for that. I'm going to open it to questions so you can either post them in the chat and I'll do my best to ask, or you can also raise your hand with the reactions at the bottom. You can do it like that. Let me see. We have a first question by Alex. Please go for it. Hello, good morning. Thank you very much. Yeah, I'm trying to think of a middle point between these two theories and one model that comes to my mind is Olacracy organizational model. I actually work in a company which runs by Olacracy. I also work learning and teaching sociocracy which I think is like the main source. I would like to know if it resonates with you because in a way I think it meets both ends. So what do you think about that?
[ 0:47:13.000 ---> 0:47:14.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you.
[ 0:47:14.000 ---> 0:49:03.000 ] Speaker D : I think that both Holocracy and sociocracy have very deep roots in cybernetics theories of organization, even if, for whatever reason, the authors don't like to confess that because there is this prejudicism that cybernetics is an old science and cybernetics is very mechanistic all sort of misinterpretations of cybernetics that unfortunately have become viral. And there are many people that will just cross out cybernetics. And that was all stuff. But the reality is that both Holocracy and sociocracy have many elements of the BSM. None of them have the complete theory. So they are good approximations, very practical and people love them because they are very practical. As you may have seen with the VSM is a very complex theory and people sometimes get scared and say oh no, I don't want to go. There is too much reading, too much thinking, so I prefer something, tell me how to do it, I want the recipe. Yeah, sociopaths in particular is a very good recipe because it takes the essence of the systems one it takes the essence about the representation between the systems one to make decisions and it does in a very simple way that works to some extent. But if you just work with sociocracy for a long time you will end up in a kind of contradictions and problems because you do need a little bit go deeper into the theory to avoid all sorts of issues that understanding the VSM theory will prevent you going, yeah. So at that respect, I think it's really good from a practical point of view to use holocracy, to use sociocracy, nothing against it, but I wouldn't discard the possibility of exploring the VSM as well to go deeper into these theories because there are much more to learn than just holiocracy on sociocracy.
[ 0:49:04.000 ---> 0:51:15.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, just to add to that, in the chat there was a mention of two other things. Elna Ostrom's principles of organization, as in her book Governing the Commons and Frederick Lalou's book on Teal organizations, both of which I read. And I think it's one of the problems of being deeply steeped in the VSM all the time. You say, oh, look, they're talking system three, they're talking system two. And you go through all these theories and they all map onto the really, really closely. And I think the essence of all of these holocracy, I don't know that well, but certainly sociocracy, Elner Ostrom's work, the Teal approach, they all start with this basis that you have to set up these autonomous teams at the operational level. They're all looking none of them are hierarchical, none of them is a big hierarchical pyramidal structure. And then they're trying to come up with, okay, how do we make it work? And Ellen Ostrom's work for me was a revelation because, I mean, she's 5000 case studies over thousands of years and these principles of organization just map beautifully onto the VSM. So there are certain commonalities which are coming out of this. But like Angela says, with all these theories, you can say, okay, they've got three quarters of the VSM and Elnostrom's got this bit and sociocracy's got that bit and Teal's got another bit. But the VSM is the only one I've come across that can map everything, all the other theories onto it. All the others are like almost VSM light in various different approaches. And sociocracy I think, is great because it's really accessible, spreading very fast based on pretty much exactly the same principles. But they don't distinguish between systems four and five, which for me opens all sorts of problems and they tend to ignore that there's no environmental amoeba on the left hand side, which again, makes it in certain situations, you really need that to do a proper design. They're all really compatible and it's very much the same sort of approach.
[ 0:51:17.000 ---> 0:51:22.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you, India, if you'd like to go next. And then paolo, please.
[ 0:51:25.000 ---> 0:52:51.000 ] Speaker E : Hi there. Thank you for the talk. I run a food systems business in Jersey and we work with lots of different size organizations. And it's really interesting starting to explore these sort of dynamics and conversations as we try and grow our kind of approach, which is to sell more food through small independent farmers, I suppose. So this is really grounded conversations. I'm wondering how does the changing in size of the environment so the need for food, et cetera. So these are the things I'm thinking about all the time. So size, scale and power. How do these impact the discussions, the theoretical discussions? Because these feel very real within the food system discussions and wondered kind of how VSM might be addressing them. It's sort of all very new to me, but we've got this quite strong agenda about growing a healthier food system in Jersey using lots of decentralized farming systems and then centralized processing systems. But power, change in need, change in environment. So that's sort of my question. I'm not sure if it's very helpful.
[ 0:52:51.000 ---> 0:52:55.000 ] Speaker B : Or very that's great. It's great. Shall I start this?
[ 0:52:56.000 ---> 0:52:59.000 ] Speaker D : Yeah, yeah. I will contribute when you finish this.
[ 0:52:59.000 ---> 0:54:41.000 ] Speaker B : OK. We actually had a very similar situation in Yorkshire where we were looking at I was involved in the organic food industry for a long, long time. And it was incredibly frustrating because you could buy organic frozen peas from China with no trouble at all, and they'd be delivered to your door and they were well presented at a good price. And then this guy rang me up from the North York Moors who just had a wonderful organic crop of broccoli and we could not get it from his farm to our shop, which was 32 miles away, without involving such huge costs, it would have priced it out the market. And so we started looking at all these independent little farmers and shops and distribution people and food groups and whole range of different things. And so how can we integrate these into a network? The VSO is the perfect vehicle in this situation because you don't interfere with the autonomy of the individual actors, but you bring them together into a network. And we spent six months looking into this and came up with some really interesting ideas, but failed to persuade the farmers that they needed to work together. So the silo mentality of the Yorkshire organic farmers was too much for us to overcome, which is very frustrating because we felt they'd have all benefited enormously from it. But certainly bringing independent actors together into a much more effective whole system is just what the VSM does.
[ 0:54:42.000 ---> 0:55:53.000 ] Speaker D : Just to contribute to John's .1 of the basic principles, theoretical principles of the VSM is the idea of managing variety, having requisite variety. And what it means is basically that when there is something in the environment that is changing very quickly, you need to design mechanisms to understand and react very quickly to whatever the environment is changing. And that means that you need to be able to reorganize internally to be able to cope with external demands. And that's part of the very important aspect of the VSM is how do you develop this capability of adaptation? And one of the issues is you need to be continuously scanning the environment, continuously interacting with the environment, so that you can understand how you need to reinvent yourself to be able to remain viable. So at that level. There is a lot in the VSM in terms of how you design your organizations to develop this capability of being attentive and developing these capabilities for observing, scanning and reinventing yourself.
[ 0:55:55.000 ---> 0:56:48.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, and there's a lot of very interesting work in Ellen Ostrom about this where she talks about things like the farmers in Spain who had these plots and they shared the irrigation by working together and doing what Angela was talking about scanning the environment for threats and one of the big ones was lack of water. And so they all worked together to build a reservoir which then piped into their irrigation system. So you can see all this mapping onto these models really well. But again, fundamentally the VSM is that you're always looking at everything in the context of the environment. On the left hand side of the diagram, that's where you start and then everything else has to deal. You do what you want to do in that context. You never forget the environment.
[ 0:56:50.000 ---> 0:56:51.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you very much.
[ 0:56:52.000 ---> 0:56:54.000 ] Speaker A : Okay, Pablo, over to you.
[ 0:56:57.000 ---> 0:57:51.000 ] Speaker C : I'm trying to phrase my question in a simpler way so that we don't run out of time too much because maybe it is a complicated question. Angela started by showing the similarities between DAOs and VSM. And the first thing that says there is that it is a similarity that DAOs are member owned and in VSM they are member led. And I don't think that's a similarity. I think being member owned and being member led is actually very different things in DAOs. The main unique thing about DAOs is that people own the Dao. The members own the Dao and they actually do actually own it in a very real sense where that ownership cannot be taken away from them.
[ 0:57:51.000 ---> 0:57:51.000 ] Speaker B : Right.
[ 0:57:51.000 ---> 0:58:05.000 ] Speaker C : And my question is how does that impact the rest of the model really? Because endos people are not being hired to lead the Dao. They are already the owners of Dao. And that's for me a very big difference.
[ 0:58:06.000 ---> 0:59:47.000 ] Speaker D : Yeah, that's a very good question and you are right. I mean, I shouldn't have put it like a similarity because it is a yeah, I put it like a similarity because even if the question of ownership is not explicit in the VSM, the best and most productive way of applying the VSM is if you develop an organization that is member owned. That's why, for instance, the work of John applying the VSM in cooperatives here in England has been so well received. Because when Stafford first met John he was fascinated by the possibility of using the VSM in a context of cooperatives when the members owned the organization rather than the managers owned and being receiving all the profits and so on. So at that level, let's say that at the theoretical level, the way that I interpret the VSM theory is that theoretically it should be much more probable to use the VSM in an organization that is member owned. But the reality is that the history of applications of the VSM there are many, many applications of the VSM in which have been applied in organizations that are not member owned and still can be very useful for organizations as an inspiration on where to go. But not necessarily. You can complete a full application of the BSM in an organization in which the members don't own the organization. So yes, Dows in that respect are much more powerful. BSM potentially could go that way and that's the inspiration. But in practical terms we have seen many applications of the BSM in other types of organizations.
[ 0:59:48.000 ---> 1:00:44.000 ] Speaker B : Can I just ask a question in this context because I've been involved in co ops all my life. When people say well what's a co op? You say it's an organization that's owned by its members which is exactly what you said about the Dow. So I just wondered if you'd made those comparisons. That comes through very clearly to me. The thing that I'm surprised about is that you give more influence to people who've got more tokens which is fundamentally completely alien in a co op. You can put huge amounts of money into it but you just do that lending money to the co op and you have no more influence. Everybody else with exactly the same voting rights as a member of the co op. So it's interesting how you've gone for this 100% ownership which sounds just like a co op but you haven't done the one person, one vote and I was very interested to try and find out why for another discussion.
[ 1:00:45.000 ---> 1:01:11.000 ] Speaker C : Yes, some Dows are experimenting with exactly that and they're facing those issues. My original question is if members owning the influences, the model that we should use or not and by how much. But as Angela said, maybe the VSM even works even better on member owned orgs. So that was kind of my question and how much that aspect of it influences the whole system.
[ 1:01:12.000 ---> 1:01:34.000 ] Speaker B : I think the other aspect of that is that certainly if the members own the organization then all the fundamental policies and identity statements in system Five will come from the members rather than from somebody like Steve Jobs or Henry Ford or Elon Musk.
[ 1:01:35.000 ---> 1:01:54.000 ] Speaker C : And then the challenges that I think most Dows are facing is exactly on having coherence on the System Five issues because having coherence on identity, strategy, vision and all that is usually the symptoms that people point to Dows of like yeah, DAOs can't do this yet. And so that's where most of the problems are usually okay.
[ 1:01:55.000 ---> 1:02:06.000 ] Speaker B : And how do you resolve those? Because in a co op you get a huge meeting of sometimes hundreds of people trying to come up with policy issues and that's really tough.
[ 1:02:10.000 ---> 1:04:44.000 ] Speaker A : You have some of that, you have the AMAs and massive votes with hundreds or even thousands of people potentially. The thing is more like that Dows come from a lot of technological limitations that are only being overcome. And one of the biggest ones is the identity piece, where I would argue that the main reason why the token based voting, as in share voting, that works the same mechanism. More tokens, more votes. More shares, more votes. Became so popular is that it's technologically relatively easy to implement compared to other mechanisms because we have the whole sort of Occupy movement libertarian influence that sifted into the blockchain world. Like the first block of Bitcoin has some message related to fuck the banks, to put it bluntly. It goes in that direction. There is that very countercultural influence there that has also prompted and because of the regulatory uncertainty that persists, there is this whole culture of pseudonymity or even anonymity. And if we want to have pseudonymity and anonymity essentially to protect the individual from nation state imposing their authority upon them and that's been part of a significant part of the ethos of the early movement now is being diluted, but it's been there for a while. If you want to be able to enable people to be autonomous and you also want to prove that the same person is not voting ten times because you could create ten wallets and have ten identities online like many people do, then you could multiply your number of votes if you have a cooperative mechanism. And it's only now that we are starting to have mechanisms come of age that allow to prove that you're a unique human and so we have other mechanisms evolving while also the whole idea of voting is again technologically relatively easy to implement. All you need to do is majority minorities, essentially a sum very basic for a technology that is super early stages. While if we want to do more complex computations like even debating a text based document and debating different clause or different elements of that, a lot of that infrastructure just doesn't exist yet. So it needs to be invented. Like part of my interest of inviting you here is so we can start to think about these questions together.
[ 1:04:44.000 ---> 1:04:46.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, very good.
[ 1:04:47.000 ---> 1:05:56.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. Do we have other questions from the audience? Otherwise I have a burning question I'm going to ask if you have more or you want to jump into the conversation. Again, it doesn't need to be a question. Just if you want to share something, you can share your hand and raise it. Ricardo, I'm going to pass over to you just before I am really curious, john, you were talking there is something that's been theorized or that I heard when we were doing one of the research projects. We heard one example of someone who was trying to bring multiple groups of people together and create a meta system, create a bigger Dao or a dao of DAOs coming from these individual groups that were starting and they hadn't succeeded yet. They were in the early stages of thinking this through and I'm seeing the example of the Yorkshire farmers that you mentioned. So I'm very curious if you have come across other examples of these sort of associations emerging that might have been successful in a viable model. Compliant, to call it somehow it sounds very corporate wording for this sort of.
[ 1:05:59.000 ---> 1:07:50.000 ] Speaker B : There'S an extraordinary example in the Basque country in northern Spain. There's a group of cooperatives called Mondragon, which I think should be on the reading list of every management course in every university in the world. And this was started after the Second World War by a Catholic priest called Arismdi. And he moved into this area which had been flattened by the Spanish Civil War and then the Second World War, and the people were very poor and there were no social services and it was a terrible state. And he started off by setting up a technical college and then a series of cooperatives. And he demanded that all these cooperatives work together. And when I went there, there were 100,000 people working in these cooperatives and they make most of the fridges and cookers and domestic appliances. In Spain, there's a brand called Fagor. They run this huge network of shops and supermarkets and hypermarkets. They make cars, they make car components, they make extraordinary numbers of things. And the whole thing is based on what for me are very, very fundamental BSM principles. And when I was talking to them when I first met, I said, so how would you describe what's going on? And they said, well, the fundamental aspect of what we do is, number one, autonomy. We preserve the autonomy of all the small cooperatives that are set up and then we federate because of synergy. So it's autonomy and synergy. And this is exactly what you'd say about the BSM and the way they do that. You look into the details of how they federate and how they work together and how they maintain their autonomy and get all the synergies and the advantages of working together. And it's inspirational and it's still going on and growing and thriving and it's a really powerful example of how this stuff can work.
[ 1:07:55.000 ---> 1:07:58.000 ] Speaker A : Angela, please go for it. I'll interview after.
[ 1:07:58.000 ---> 1:10:45.000 ] Speaker D : No, just just to tell you that for me, this is a fascinating question. I have the same really desire to learn about it and I have been trying to widen the scope so publication of the BSM, mostly through my PhD students, but also in different contexts. And one of the most fascinating ones that I remember was some years ago, I was invited by the Green Party in Spain when the Occupy movement was forming, and they wanted to create inspiration to self organize the social movement in terms of how could self organized social movements have a more clear influence in society in changing the rule? And at that point I started thinking about using the DSM to facilitate social movements and I did a little bit of. Work on that. And this is a work that I have been seeing appearing more and more and more recently. So for instance, one of my PhD students was working in Colombia when there was these very massive social protests in the last few years and trying to help the social movement to get organized using BSM principles as well. And some people have done the same in Chile. And I mean, there is like a new group of people that are trying to consider how to use that. Another example of how to progress in that respect is the idea of using the VSM to design multi agencies. Because multi agencies is basically when you have different kind of organizations that need to cooperate, need to work together. And BSM is an ideal theory to try to create networks of networks. So in our recent books, both in the one that I co author with John in 2017, collect Complexity Our Approach to Sustainability and in the new one that is for coming this year in Rutledge that is called Self Governance for Sustainability, the Bible System in Action. In both books I have a chapter that is about BSM to inspire network management and network design. And I have several examples of work that I have done as a consultant with PhD students, most of them very preliminary. I mean, there is nothing as impressive as talking about mondragon or anything like that, but the intention is to continue exploring. It's a really fascinating topic and I think that that topic has a lot to do what we are talking about, about the possibilities of Dows in terms of having a wider influence in society in the medium term.
[ 1:10:45.000 ---> 1:12:25.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, the other really fascinating example of the Amelia Romana co ops around Bologna in northern Italy. And they take a very different approach. There are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of small cooperatives, all very family and community based and they come together to take on huge contracts and they bid at the global level against multinationals. And one company, one co op will say, okay, I'm going to bid for this particular contract, but I need you and you and you and you and they might assemble several smaller cooperatives and they say, okay, I need you to do this particular job and you to make do the carpentry and so on and so forth. And they take these things on incredibly successfully and they compete on the world stage against these huge corporations and win. And then as soon as the contract is finished, they all say, okay, well that was great. And then they all go back to working individually and then another one will get another contract and they'll form another collaboration. So it's much looser. And it's something I really love because it reminds me, the slime molds, how these molds come together and form these sort of slug like creatures and then at certain stages in their development, they go back into little cellular. And the results are extraordinary because it's one of the most prosperous parts of Italy and it's also the most equal part. So this crazy neoliberal theory that you need massive polarization or wealth to be successful is complete nonsense. So there are various models that work really well, and we can send you a chapter, Daniel, because we wrote this up in the second edition of the book. So we've got these written down.
[ 1:12:26.000 ---> 1:12:27.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. Thank.
[ 1:12:27.000 ---> 1:12:27.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 1:12:27.000 ---> 1:14:18.000 ] Speaker A : I'm super interesting to see what sort of patterns we can find on starting these disaggregated networks because in practice it's tremendously challenging as it requires, especially at the beginning, a very significant amount of overhead work, like conceptualizing the network, designing the network, evangelizing, convincing people to join, and so on. And there is tremendous fear of everyone sort of participating. We have defaulted in dao started to play with a pattern that is what we call co working. So we're doing an experiment now in incubation. We included meet with Wallet, which is you could call them a startup. There is a small team creating a scheduling tool for DAOs and we started by bringing them into R Dao because we see a lot of synergies in between what we're doing, what they're doing, and in terms of talent funnels for the community and so on to work across. And we're starting by bringing them in and doing a month of co working. So they join our server, they hang out with us and hopefully at the end of that period we have sort of proved that these synergies exist and are valuable enough that then we officialize the agreement and do some sort of equity sharing or more fundamental sort of enmeshment at the incentive alignment means that we are creating a value exchange that is sustainable for both organizations. As at the moment, we're just kind of bootstrapping that by investing our own time without any return, but hoping that that picks up. I'm super curious to see any other information that you might have on those sorts of patterns that we can learn from would be very much appreciated. I'm going to pass it on to Ricardo, who also has a question.
[ 1:14:22.000 ---> 1:14:23.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 1:14:23.000 ---> 1:14:24.000 ] Speaker F : Hi. Can you guys hear?
[ 1:14:25.000 ---> 1:14:27.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. Yeah. All right.
[ 1:14:27.000 ---> 1:15:43.000 ] Speaker F : So, first of all, thanks Angela, and really, really interesting. It's amazing the experience you have in this area. I'm just learning, learning. This is my first contact with VSM, and it's really interesting. So several points of comparison with DAOs. Really interesting. My background is in business. I migrated to research a couple of years ago, decided to go back to university, been involved in blockchain for a few years and just started contributing with Daniel and Paulo and a few other colleagues at Is. I'm curious. Actually, my question is this. I'm doing PhD now, by the way, on the political science side, algorithmic governance. So I'm fascinated with this. My question too is this from your experience of studying probably hundreds cases of case studies, of VSM case studies. Is there one or a few factors that more often than not contribute to communities that you have studied or you are aware of not working? What are the key factors that come to mind right away for you of the reasons for communities not working?
[ 1:15:44.000 ---> 1:18:23.000 ] Speaker D : Oh, well, that's very easy. Normally selfishness people egos, the difficulty of really working with other people and relinquishing your own interest, desire of power, reputation. I mean, all these very sensible issues. Those are the things that normally you invite people, you convince people to work into join these kind of organizations and then you start seeing the traditional problems of human nature that goes in the way. Because this, in any case, require of a kind of philosophy of life and a kind of ethos of cooperation, of sharing, of relinquishing your ego a little bit that not everybody is ready to take. And many times you manage to get people buying the idea and starting working and then you see things happening. We had an experience in an eco village that we helped them for three years in Ireland to use the BSM. And it was fascinating the first three years, the way that they reorganized themselves. They really moved into a much more democratic, self organized way. And after three years, when we stopped going, there were a couple of people that enter and completely sabotaged the structure because they wanted to impose their power and their philosophy. And their philosophy was against the philosophy that we have been sharing for the last pre of cooperation and collaboration. And they had other values and they managed to sabotage, they managed to filter down. So we have seen this many, many times. These theories are all beautiful, they are not value free and there is always going to be the human aspect that can completely distort or sabotage these ideals of working in a much more collaborative, transparent and so on. At that respect, I think that Dows has something fascinating and is the fact that while some of the transactions are made automatically, I do think that is true, that you can prevent the incidents of individual decisions and things. But it's also the question to what extent you can put everything automatically. There are always going to be some decisions that need to be done by humans and in the discussions about these decisions the human nature is going to come up and I don't know of any complete solution to avoid it. I don't know of anyone.
[ 1:18:23.000 ---> 1:18:25.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, go ahead.
[ 1:18:25.000 ---> 1:18:26.000 ] Speaker A : Sorry.
[ 1:18:26.000 ---> 1:22:01.000 ] Speaker B : The other thing I found in both the two biggest applications that I've actually managed to change things, one was in a cooperative and you start a co op with a bunch of friends and you get two or three people and then it goes to five or six and seven and it just works beautifully. And you could do a VSM mapping of a small group which if you're interested, there's a website. If you put my name and VSM into the internet you get this website when I was working in cooperatives and it just works beautifully. It's just a really lovely structure. And then as the number grows you say, okay, well we'll just keep working in the same way. The numbers grow, the numbers grow, the numbers grow and the complexity gets overwhelming and you get into this situation which there was a very famous paper called The Tyranny of structuralness which I don't know if you come across, came out of the women's movement in the 1970s and it's just wonderful. And it just shows that everybody says, oh, we're not going to have any structure so we'd all be free and we'll all be equal and we'll all be friends and get on and it turns into this most horrible nightmare of certain people who can manipulate the structure. And that's really where I started with all this in a situation. It wasn't as horrible as Joe Friedman talks about in the paper, but we were in this large cooperative which was 35 ish people, that sort of number trying to organize. It like a small co op and it was just awful. I mean there was just nobody knew what was going on and there was confusion and there was no central coordination. And that's where I wrote to StaffordBy originally to say can you help with this? And he'd written this book called Designing Freedom. Is that right, Angela? So you need structure in order to you get a large group and it starts to fall apart and it stops being fair and decent and egalitarian and you have to impose structure in order to recreate that. And that was the revelation for me and a lot of other people because we'd always said our structures are terrible. It's people telling people what to do. And the VSM takes a very different approach to mean after a couple of years of running this I was asked to do an assessment of it. So I went around and asked everybody in the co op what they thought, how it was working and they said, what? You mean this is how we always done this? This is how we've always worked. And when things work well, people think it's just obvious. So we had the same thing in the eco village that we got there and that was 100 people, 200 people, a lot of families in this eco village and they'd done amazing work on house design and district heating networks and energy systems and everything and they could do everything apart from organize themselves. And when it came down to organization they were trying to use the same approaches and their constitution said we will have nothing to do with command and control because they identified that as one of the problems of living in this particular time where things are falling apart very badly. And that's where they got in touch with us to come and help him design a structure. So I think there is this thing about even with the best of intentions, you get to the point where you have to bring in structures to deal with the complexity, otherwise you get overwhelmed by it.
[ 1:22:02.000 ---> 1:23:43.000 ] Speaker D : And another issue to complete my leadership is the change on leadership. I led very broad applications of the BSM at the national level in Colombia before moving to England in the 1990s. And in one of these applications that was one of the most beautiful ones, we designed a program to monitor the impact of social investment to fight poverty in Colombia. And we work with thousands of people in the whole country. Created a system inspiring the VSM to generate early alarms about the way that these funds were not impacting poorer populations. There was a beautiful democratic participatories. It's absolutely gorgeous and worked perfectly for four years later on. And people learned to participate, learned to take decisions jointly and with representatives from private sector governments, communities, ethnic minorities. Everything that you can imagine theoretically was there and worked for. Four years later on it came a president, a conservative president that just saw the opportunity of using these spaces to basically come and tell people what to do and completely sabotage all these democratic structures as political marketing spaces that were very powerful but completely distorting the nature. And I mean, that kind of stories, I've seen them happening once and again. So the leadership who is there supporting new structure, a new way of organizing, a new form of governance is fundamental. When it changes, it can be completely misused and sabotaged as well.
[ 1:23:44.000 ---> 1:23:55.000 ] Speaker F : Very interesting. Thank you very much for this. Really important, what you both just said. After this is finished, I'll look up your contacts and I'd like to keep in touch.
[ 1:23:55.000 ---> 1:24:02.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, do. Well, again, it goes for everybody. We're happy to talk about anything that you guys are doing that we can be of any help with.
[ 1:24:05.000 ---> 1:24:53.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. So, Angela and John, we're essentially out of time. Thank you very much for joining us. A fantastic presentations. And thank you everyone for participating in this discussion. If you're interested, you can follow the work of Dao on the Twitter. And Angela and John, could I ask you to share your presentations with me if that's okay with you, and we can share them in the Arendao discord. Also, if anyone wants to get in touch, I'm happy to facilitate introductions. Just ping me either on Twitter or in Dao. And equally, Angela and John will continue discussing after, and I'm sure there's many more things that we can create in the back of this. So thanks again for joining us. Thank you everyone. Have a lovely rest of the day and hopefully see you soon.
[ 1:25:02.000 ---> 1:25:03.000 ] Speaker B : The world.
