[ 0:00:11.000 ---> 0:01:18.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you for joining us for YC's 2022 gotomarket Expo, we're highlighting companies in our portfolio that are hiring in ops, sales, marketing and other nontechnical roles. Now, while the broader economic conditions aren't great, we're lucky to have a number of startups here today that are still growing, have strong revenue and are hiring for a number of gotomarket positions. 20 of them will be presenting today. And if you go to work at a Startup.com, you'll find many, many more and be able to filter on role, salary, industry and a lot more to find a job that might be great for you. Three quick tips on how to reach out to companies either on this platform or just in general. Number one, shoot a personalized email. Don't do spam messages, they don't work and they don't stand out from the crowd. Number two, recommend three things that you'd be excited to work on and position that as an entry to a conversation. Lastly, have a clear call to action time and date, so that way a founder can quickly book time with you. You can use these tips both on the platform workatostastartup.com or if you can find their email Twitter handles, you should go ahead and do that. And with that, let's get started.
[ 0:01:19.000 ---> 0:03:07.000 ] Speaker B : Hey, everyone. I'm Mohit, CEO of Anakin. We help large ecommerce companies like Walmart and Uber automate their pricing in real time based on competition intelligence. We do that by collecting data and generating actionable insights. Our pricing engine automatically changes the prices of hundreds of millions of products across 15 plus countries in real time. Anakin is profitable and we are growing 20% month on month. With many multibillion dollar ecommerce companies as our customers. We run extremely lean. I've been doing sales myself till now, and now we are looking for our first hire in sales. Someone with experience in large ticket size enterprise sales is excited about adopting a founder led sales playbook. Once again, I'm mohit at Anakin. If you're interested in doing large ticket sized sales in a profitable and growing startup, do stop by and say hi. Thank you. Hi everyone. I'm Anada. I'm the co founder and CEO of Bold Voice, and our mission is to help immigrants work on their accent and speak English more confidently. So on the app, our users learn from video lessons from Hollywood Accent coaches and then practice their speaking and get immediate feedback from our speech recognition technology. We launched on the App Store last summer and have become one of the top apps in education, with hundreds of thousands of downloads. And in the past year alone, we've ten x our revenue. So now we're hiring to help us add more fuel to the fire. I'm looking for a growth marketing manager to help with scaling our user base efficiently. And then on the operations side, we're looking for an operations manager to help us run everything smoothly. And also, we're based in New York, so ideally looking for someone to join us in person, and I'm very much looking forward to chatting with you all.
[ 0:03:13.000 ---> 0:04:25.000 ] Speaker C : Hello, my name is Chandan, and I am one of the co founders of Cointracker. At Cointracker, we're working on building the leader in cryptocurrency portfolio tracking and tax compliance software. You can think about it a little bit like a mashup between Mint and TurboTax for crypto. And right now, our mission is to enable everyone in the world to be able to use crypto with peace of mind. Today we're tracking 5% of the entire global cryptocurrency market cap on Cointracker. So $50 billion worth of crypto assets are synced to our systems every day. If you want to accelerate your career, please come talk to us at cointracker, because we're hiring across all the go to market roles marketing, finance, operations, partnerships, you name it, we want to talk to you. We've worked with some of the leading partners in the industry, including Coinbase, OpenSea and Blockchain.com, and we'd love to get your help to extend these partnerships to many other folks. If you want to accelerate your career, I'm Chandan from Cointracker. Come find us afterwards.
[ 0:04:31.000 ---> 0:05:40.000 ] Speaker D : I'm Kathy, the co founder of Lovero. My co founder Abir and I are second time YC batchmates building a multi currency account for businesses. And our mission is to build the best business bank for all the companies that kind of operate around the world. If you've ever had to exchange money for travel, you know how painful that is. Now imagine doing that for a company. So we've grown our customer base by ten x this year, and we're looking for our very critical first go to market hire to help us keep up with the growth and also to scale up customer acquisition and build channel partnerships. The best part of working at Lovero is definitely the really amazing team that we have. There's eleven of us, a couple of second time founders, a lot of really experienced engineers. We speak nine languages between us. We're a primarily technical team who's worked on projects like the f one project for Ferrari at Palantir, Google Search and Led banking at Gusto. We're a really high competence, low ego team that likes to have fun, and we do tell a lot of bad jokes. We raise a big seed round from really amazing fintech investors, like the founder CEOs of Monzo, Yahoo, Zoom Klarna. Please do drop by our booth and we'd love to talk to you. And drop me an email. Thank you.
[ 0:05:45.000 ---> 0:06:39.000 ] Speaker B : Hi, I'm Keshav. I'm one of the co founders and the CEO of Lumini. We help large customer service and operational orgs take any kind of MultiClick, multistep process and make it one click. We work with teams like DoorDash, Auring, Strava, Whatnot and others to essentially help take their support teams and make them 20% to 25% more effective at their jobs. We're currently a little over half a million in annualized revenue, and we have a little over one and a half million in pilot revenue. And we have five former YC founders at Lumini owed to the 15 team members. And we've raised about $20 million from General Catalysts, Craft Ventures, and YC. We're hiring for our first marketer. Please meet me and Jordan, our head of talent, at the booth. Thank you so much.
[ 0:06:46.000 ---> 0:07:54.000 ] Speaker E : Hi, guys. I'm DK, co founder at Marfision. Marfision is building an AIpowered IP operating system that helps companies and brands of all sizes to easily create, manage and protect their IPS all in one place. From automatically detecting and removing online counterfeits and pirated contents to filing an international trademark with just a simple click of a button, markvision is completely reinventing the IP tech industry. Our clients are the likes of Tiffany Burgari, tom Brown, dyson LG and hundred more. And we are already on T path and have more than tripled our arr Y-O-Y which resulted in putting our name on this year's YC Top Company list. We're backed by SoftBank, YC, DST Global and have raised more than $25 million to date. We have hundred people spread across four geographies. Our HQ is in La and also have regional offices in New York, Seoul and Paris. If you want to be part of the fastest growing startup in the world, please don't hesitate to visit our booth and reach out to me via DK Lee@marfision.com. Thank you.
[ 0:08:00.000 ---> 0:15:28.000 ] Speaker B : Hi, everyone. My name is Benjamin, co founder of Mentorcam. At Mentorcam, we give early stage startup founders access to highly accomplished founders and VCs for one on one advice and mentorship our customers. In other words, our mentees love Mentor Camp for a very simple reason they get to talk to mentors that otherwise they had no chance of accessing. We have a small but extremely hands on team of ten people. Each of us is responsible for a key role within a company operating with total freedom of responsibility. We absolutely love working with people that have attention to detail and have do whatever it takes mentality. It is our job to make mentees and Mentors happy. And on that note, we have a super important and open role at Mentorcam, which is all about nurturing mentee mentor relationships. I hope to talk to some of you and answer any questions you may have. This was Benjamin from Mentorcam. Hi, everyone. I'm Teddy, marketing lead at Middesk. In case you haven't heard of us, Middesk is a leading business identity platform and is a YC company with investors including Excel, Sequoia, Insight and Canopy Ventures. So what is a business identity platform? People take for granted how easy it is to sign up for products like Venmo, Robinhood or Coinbase. One reason for this is because of infrastructure products available that provide the information needed to make fast and reliable. For businesses, it's a little different. To operate a business, an entrepreneur needs to do things like open a bank account, get a credit card, borrow money, run payroll, and process payments. Unfortunately, accessing this type of information about a business isn't always easy. Businesses need to provide a significant amount of difficult to find information like their ownership structure, upload documents like tax returns, and more. So this is where Middesk comes in. Middesk is able to bring together everything required to evaluate and establish b two B relationships, no matter how new or small a business is. And you can do this via our streamlined dashboard or easy to integrate API. Join us after to learn more about Middesk. Thanks. Hey everyone. I'm Chris, the CEO of Neera. Nira is software that helps renewable developers find the best locations on the electric grid for new wind or solar projects. We've grown to one and a half million in arr in a little over a year with just our three founders. Prior to starting Nira, we ran business development for another grid tech startup and built $150,000,000 pipeline in less than two years. Collectively, we've been in the energy industry for probably about 30 years combined and have relationships with most of the major utilities and renewable developers that we're selling to. We're looking for our first sales hire because we honestly have a massive pipeline and really just need help managing it. Founder sales alone can't cut it anymore. Ideally, you want an Ae or a founding sales hire that can help build and manage the sales team as we scale and who's also excited to work in climate tech. My name is Chris from Nira and yeah, hope to chat later. Thanks everyone. Hey everyone. We're Nickel. We're from the winter of 22 YC batch. Nickel allows product teams to build machine learning into their products without hiring ML engineers and without maintaining ML infrastructure. And the way we accomplish that is with a novel approach to AutoML, where rather than asking them about data splits, model architectures, training time, these ML concepts, we pick for them or we try several options. We end up running hundreds of experiments in parallel and are usually done in less than 60 seconds. Then we pick the best one, serve that for them on a single API endpoint, and they can build it into their product. Our customers love us. Existing customer cohorts are growing 20% month over month and basically no churn. But our new customer acquisition has stagnated. So we're looking for someone who has experience working in a seed stage marketing and sales capacity who can help us drive that strategy, execute on the strategy, and then grow the team from there. So if that's the kind of opportunity you're looking for, yeah, please come chat with us or reach out to me personally. Thanks. Hi everyone. My name is Marlon and I'm the founder and CEO at Portal. And at Portal, we're building shopify for service companies. We help marketing agencies, recruiting firms, nonprofits and other service businesses start, run and grow. Just like shopify became the default for entrepreneurs looking to sell a physical product. So too do we think that we can become that default for entrepreneurs that are looking to sell and deliver some kind of service. And of course, that means that if we succeed, more entrepreneurs succeed, which we love. We're a team of 15 in New York City and Remote, and we just raised the $10 million Series A. Today we're at almost a million in Arr and we have more than 500 paying customers. I'd love to meet you. If you're a product marketer, a demand gen specialist, you're in sales or you're a recruiter. Again. My name is Marlon. I'm from Portal and I'd love to chat. Hey everyone, I'm Sai. I'm the CEO at Seam. We are building an API and a platform for controlling IoT devices. The reason for this is want to make it possible for businesses, for software developers to automate the physical world. So we have customers like Saunder. We work with Flask mile delivery companies for opening doors to deliver packages. And we're certain look at energy devices and other types of devices. So we just closed our Series A, raised over $20 million. We're based in San Francisco. We're growing about 50% week over week. We are a team. From Nest, from Saunder, from Apple, from Goldman. We're looking for sharp minds with kind souls. We are looking for people who can internalize the idea that speed compounds over time. We're looking for marketing, sales designers, and always engineers. And so I'm sai and I'm with Seem. Thanks. Hi. My name is Nick from Sphere. I'm CEO and co founder. Our platform basically allows enterprises to upskill their teams through live interactive courses. So we've sold to over 800 different companies. Now we have recurring enterprise contracts with folks like Stripe, Flipkart, Tinder, Accenture and there's really three things that make us different from other elearning platforms. One is that the courses are hyper specific to learning functional skills for a particular job. Secondly is that we've built a content production system that allows us to spin up courses much quicker and cheaper than a lot of other competitors. So we can be very responsive to enterprise needs and be quite sticky there. And lastly is that instructors take home 80% of course earnings, which means we're able to really attract the best industry leaders to teach our courses. So we're looking to build learning pathways for businesses across every function. From ML Data, sales Finance, HR. We're looking to bring on sales and growth roles. We have a product led sales strategy, ideally NSF, where we're based. And yeah, really it's to scale our enterprise client list. So please come chat to us.
[ 0:15:32.000 ---> 0:16:52.000 ] Speaker C : Hey, everybody. My name is Tom Dowling. I'm the CEO and co founder of Taxpropper. Taxpropper helps institutional real estate investors and enterprises manage their property tax liability. So we offer an enterprise SaaS solution that acquires real time property tax data, encodes local tax rules, and contains all of the operational workflows associated with property tax management. So I think the three reasons that we've got a really compelling opportunity, what we're looking for is somebody to be sort of a founding sales role. Reason number one, we found product Market Fit. So we've gone from zero to a million dollars in arr over the last twelve months and have signed deals with world class customers. On the tech side that includes Opendoor and Roofstock. On the real estate side that includes firms like Brookfield and Invitation Homes. The second reason is you're going to be set up for success. So to date, all sales have been run through me and I need help to help close the next 3 million in our pipeline. So we're going to be working together to help work on that. And then the third reason the boring thing is to say we're backed by world class investors like YC and Koshla, but I think more excitingly, we've been doing all this profitably. So again, my name is Tom. I'm the CEO and co founder of Taxpropper, looking to hire sort of a founding sales role. Looking forward to talking to you all soon.
[ 0:16:57.000 ---> 0:20:57.000 ] Speaker B : Hi everyone. We're almost done. I'm dan from textblaze. Textblaze is a productivity tool that allows users to automate repetitive typing tasks. You should try it. It's intuitive, easy to start using, and it saves users hours every week within minutes. And they love it. We have over 200,000 users with a perfect five star rating. If you read some of our reviews, they're all like, where was this all my life? This is amazing. And so on. It's fun working on a product that users love and can't wait to share with others. We start with the individual users, but we sell to companies and we have thousands of paying teams. Some are enterprise accounts with thousands of users. And despite our fast user and revenue growth, we're still a small, lean, remote team of friendly superstars. And we're looking for similar folks to join our founding team across a wide range of go to market roles, including marketing, sales and customer success, and help shape our future. Come visit us. Remember text blaze. Thank you. Hello everyone. My name is Sarim. I am the co founder and CEO of Triomics. So currently the way the hospitals conduct clinical research is very archaic and either they use pen and paper or legacy software, which leads to longer timelines for bringing new medical innovations to the market, such as vaccines or drugs or any medical devices. So what we are trying to do is we are building this modern software for hospitals as well as their physicians conducting clinical research or trials. Our mission is to combine the workflows of healthcare as well as clinical research so that we can move the entire healthcare industry closer towards the vision of clinical research as a care option. We started our operations mid of last year and in 2022 this year we are on track to do roughly $2.5 million and have recently closed a Series A being led by Lightspeed and with strong participation from Nexus as well as General Catalyst. And currently we are looking to make our first senior hires in marketing, strategy and partnerships. In addition, we're also looking to hire our Chief of Staff and we would prefer candidates based out of the Bay Area and looking forward to chatting with folks who are interested in joining us. Thank you. Hey. This is Manvit Shamali, co founder of Turing Labs. Don't confuse with Turing.com. It's Turinglabs. And we help CpGs like Unilever and the Coca Cola Company develop better consumer products. So think about the companies who manufacture these products that you consume every single day. They spend years to develop single product using antiquated process to find optimal formula. We want to change that. Our software shortens the entire development cycle from years to just matter of few weeks. Several world's largest CpGs use Turing Labs to develop better products, including the products that you, your family use every single day. We are a vertical SaaS company and we know exactly how to go from one to $1010 to $100 million into $1 billion in sales. This is because the founders have decades of domain experience and we have surrounded ourselves with world class top talent. To achieve our mission, we are hiring several positions, particularly in account management who loves to sell large ACV to giants like PepsiCo and things like that. We are hiring for product marketing role. We're hiring for Rev ops and business ops as well. So if you have interest in this and working for a company that touches 8 billion people around the world, please ping me. Thank you.
[ 0:21:01.000 ---> 0:22:33.000 ] Speaker F : Hey everyone. I'm Alex, co founder of OLabs. We are a medical, diagnostics and health tech company combining low cost but highly accurate diagnostic chemistry with simple hardware and software focused on the user experience. Our first product is an FDA authorized COVID test which allows for PCR quality results at a fraction of the price. Currently, our test is authorized for point of care only, but we are in the process of our over the counter approval. Beyond COVID, we're leveraging our platform to develop additional tests for STIs, UTIs and more with a focus on the consumer and enterprise market. I'm a two time repeat founder with an exit in the biopharma space. And my co founder Cam is a National Labs fellow who is a molecular diagnostics expert. Our team has developed, trialed and launched a regulated medical diagnostic product. And we're seeing large month over month growth in sales from healthcare providers. We've also received $15 million in NIH funding and have raised additional seed funding from top tier VCs. We've got an awesome game changing product. It's been receiving rave reviews from doctors and nurses, and now we're turning our attention to the home and enterprise market. We're looking for highly motivated and experienced sales and marketing team members who will ultimately be the foundation of our over the counter go to market strategy. Specifically, we're looking for people to help us expand our brand awareness, run and set up our digital marketing campaigns, sell our products into companies, and ultimately make an impact in the consumer health space. Again, I'm Alex from UO Labs. Thank you and please stop by our booth.
[ 0:22:37.000 ---> 0:23:24.000 ] Speaker B : Hey, everyone. I'm Anurag, the founder of Zensers. Zensers is a spatial intelligence platform for brick and mortar businesses. Zensers connects into your existing security cameras and uses AI to understand and quantify the customer journey throughout your entire physical business. We are currently deployed at complex facilities like airports, large, complex retailers around the world, and are tracking over a million people every day in these facilities. As more people seek out in real life experiences, the demand for a customer experience platform for physical businesses is growing rapidly. We're looking for all gotomarket roles marketing, sales, sales, operations, and it's a unique opportunity to come define a new category of software that's only today possible because of modern, deep learning.
[ 0:23:24.000 ---> 0:23:25.000 ] Speaker C : AI.
[ 0:23:26.000 ---> 0:23:29.000 ] Speaker B : I'm anurag with sensors. Come hang out and learn more after this.
