[ 0:00:00.000 ---> 0:00:52.000 ] Speaker A : Hello, everyone. So we're live I'm here with Tedro from Sociocracy for all. Super excited to have him. I'm going to pass to Ted for a second to do a bit more of an introduction, but from my side. I'm Daniel, I'm one of the originators at ARN Dao, and we are Dao Innovation Lab, focusing on research on Dao operations and governance, and Dow Tooling Incubation. And we are seeing a lot of potential to explore the parallels in between self management methodologies and different experiments on progressive organization that's happened over the last few years and how we can learn from these experiments to also bring these lessons as we reinvent organizations in Web Three and specifically Dows. So thank you all for coming. And Ted. Over to you.
[ 0:00:53.000 ---> 0:28:38.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, thank you very much. So, a few words about me. I'm from Germany, but I live in the US, have been for the last ten years or so. And I got hooked on this sociocracy stuff about nine or so years ago. And that's what I do full time, every day, all day, mostly teaching and consulting with organizations. And we are ourselves a sociocratic organization incorporated as a nonprofit and with like 180 or so members and a bunch of people and staff. So what's going to happen here is I will talk a little bit about sociocracy. And as Daniel was saying, the pieces interlock. So I know that I can only say one thing at once. That's the nature of the linear speaking, that's what it's like. But ultimately, I hope that within 30 minutes or 20 to 30 minutes, I can kind of give you a sense of all the different parts and why they belong together in the way they do. And then I will also talk a little bit about how it applies to DAOs and what I've heard and seen there. And then time for Q A. As Daniel was saying. So let me start by saying, here we are. What to me, governance is, because I know outside of the Dow space, where people don't really think so much about governance, people think that governance is something other people need. And you see my slide right now, right, about why governance. Tell me if not. And the way I think about governance is it connects the people with the thing that we want to do. So we have something that we want to do together, and we have a bunch of people to do it with, that's great. But just because you have 50 people and a project you want to do doesn't mean it's going to happen, right? What we need is all this stuff in between. And that is what governance is, right? Like, who decides what and how do we decide and how do we make it happen? So Sociocracy, as the word, just a few sentences on history has been around since the 1980s. So about the time I was born, it came from the Netherlands, and it's a mix of all kinds of things and has been the basis of many of these role based, consent based, circuit based governance systems. And the word came about because of the two pieces here. Socio, like in sociology is those who associate together. So the socios and Chrissy of course is governance. So in a way one could translate it as those who associate together, govern together or in a shortcut that's a little bit too short to be correct but it's nice to kind of get a sense it would be those who work together, decide together, different from democracy where people decide who are citizens but not involved heavily. Like they don't actually know what this big question is but they get to vote, right? And that is actually a tension that already comes up in that comparison between sociocracy and Tao governance. But we'll get there. So in sociocracy, those who work together are the ones who decide compared to hierarchy, right? A hierarchical system where decisions are made at the top and then carried out somewhere below. There we have that unlinking of decision making and work, right? The people who decide are not the people who carry it out. The people who carry things out don't get to decide things. And in sociocy we put them both together. So those who carry things out, we give them the power to make final decisions. And the way that works is we have a team that we call a circle and that circle does work and makes decisions, policy decisions about how things are generally done. Like they kind of set the frame together and they self organize as a unit. So for example, they will decide how often they meet, when they meet, how they organize their meetings, who facilitates and so on and so on. So they are basically a cell that is autonomous. There are two words of jargon that I need to bring here. One is aim and one is domain. Sometimes in some systems, like for example in systems like self organizing systems, SOS and so on, that's called the mandate. But I really like to split it up into aim and domain. So aim is kind of the purpose of the group. Like every circle should know what it's for, what is this group trying to accomplish? And the domain is a term to describe what the group is allowed to make decisions about. For example, let's say we have a group that is running some kind of garden together. Then the aim of a part of that group would be, let's say everything like getting new members to join and the domain is membership that they can decide who can be a member and who can't. So those two go together. Now, this is rather obvious if you only have one team because who else would be deciding but them, right? So if you have one team, that's very easy. But how does it work with several teams and that is typically where people struggle the most. Running a team of seven, eight people as an autonomous unit, that's easy. But how do you do it with 30 5200? How does it scale? That's basically the question. And here's how we do it in Sociocracy. And I'm going to stick to the gardening example just because it's very easy to understand and you can then translate it in your head or we can do it together. And how would that look in other organizations? I use gardening because everybody understands what gardening is and what it involves. So let's say we have this team and then we have two other teams and again they each do work and they each make decisions in that domain that their work is in and they each self organize. Like for example, if they want to meet weekly and they want to meet monthly, they get to do that because there's nobody that can tell them that. One other thing that I just said in a side comment, but I want to highlight it because it often gets forgotten. These people are doing work in the domain. So let's assign domains, let's say just for the fun of the example here. These people in the community garden, they are the people who plant the plants, which means they order seeds and they get to decide how many varieties of tomatoes we're going to plant. They decide whether we're going to have potatoes or not. So they make these decisions and they are also the people who oversee and mostly do all the planting and everything that has to do with that. Let's say in that community garden project there's also this group and those are the people who take care of the infrastructure. So for example, they set up fences and they make sure the hoses are working and so on the tool shed with all the tools. So they do that. So they might be fixing tools, they might be fixing fences, that's what they do. And these people here, they might be the people who do everything that has to do with the people. For example, they show people around who are thinking about joining or they send a newsletter to everybody who's a member, that kind of stuff, like a membership people kind of committee. And again, the people who are on this group who are decision makers about membership are also the people who are doing all those things that have to do with that. So it's in Sociocracy very unusual and very discouraged to have decision makers made out of groups who don't actually know what the work is like. So you qualify to be a decision maker by being on the team that does stuff. Now this is all great and really if you think about it that way, everything in this organization is now already being done and decided somewhere. So really we're almost done because everything has now a place where it can be decided. It's either in this bucket or in this bucket or in that bucket. It's either people related infrastructure or plant related. Let's say that's all there is. But now we need a place to make certain decisions that are more on a meta level and that's where it gets interesting from my point of view. So what we do is we take two people from each of those circles and put them into what we call a general circle. And the general circle now makes hardly any decisions except for the decisions of who decides what. So for example, if it's unclear whether a certain decision lives here or there and if they argue about that, for example, the decision of who gets to harvest how many tomatoes, is that a membership question or is it a plant vegetable question? That would be something I could imagine would happen and then they would have to clarify it first, just the circles together or maybe through their leaders or something. But then they would need to clarify that in how they write the aims and domains of the different groups so that we have clarity of what is decided where. So the general circle is needed so we can adjust and adapt our aims and domains of the teams so that we're not locked in and don't have anywhere else to go to resolve it. And of course they also do information flow, right? Because each of the circles here will be reporting and that way everybody knows what's happening where. And they will also support. Like for example, if these people are kind of worn out by whatever is happening here, they get to complain here and get some support in the general circle. There is also typically what we call a mission circle that is like advisory board of people who look more long term. So for example, where we in the garden example, it would be like what are we doing in terms of developing our membership over the last five, over the next five years? Or something like that. And you see again so now I've overlaid it with these circles, right? So here you have the double link, which is what we call it. I'll talk more about that. So two people from this team here, right, and here, those two people here and those two people here. But the general circle and the mission circle are also double linked so that the people who do the long term strategic thinking know what actually is happening on the ground and vice versa. So the double linking as it's called, is always a strategy to make sure there's good information flow. But there's also another advantage of having this linking as a general approach. And that is that if this circle again argues with that circle about what's in their domain and then we make a decision about it, the people who decide that are not some random other people. It's not some steering committee that just makes decisions kind of in a top down way. But it's the people that are actually the people who are involved plus their peers that make the decision together. So in that way, together with a decision making method, consent that I'll talk about later and linking, we can create a situation where no team can overpower another team because we always make up that team of parts of the other team. And through that linking, there's never a situation where somebody else decides about something that affects me in my circle work. All right, then the whole thing becomes fractal. That's kind of the basic setup. And from then on it's completely fractal. So if this group wants to decide to decides to have a subset of decision makers, let's say this was infrastructure circle here, let's say they have two or three people that take care of the wood, the toolshed and the tools and they can say, okay, let's not talk about the tool stuff here all the time. Let's just form a sub team. And they talk about that and they decide now. So in a way, that piece of the domain, that is the toolshed, they now pass on to their sub circle and now it's theirs, they decide. So if these people decide to paint the toolshed bright pink, they get to do that without asking them for permission because we've passed the domain into that group here. That's an important piece, the passing on of domains. Because otherwise power tends to kind of cluster in the middle, in the center. And then we recreate hierarchical systems where these people just decide everything. So we need to really have that courage to say no, actually take it and it stays with you. You guys are now the decision makers and we're going to give you feedback if we think you're making a really big mistake. But ultimately it is your decision. That's the way we decentralize authority in society. Let's see. Not going to talk about that. So let's zoom in on one of the circles real quick just to see what that looks like. So within a circle, we will have several roles. So the two linking roles that I've already talked about, and I'll say a little bit more about that in a moment. But we also have some other roles like the facilitator, the person who's moderating the meetings and we will have a secretary, the person who takes notes. And that is actually quite a big job because in this kind of way of working for us, it's important that everything is super transparent. So making sure good notes are taken and so that people can read from another circle or from the general membership, they can see how decisions were made and what led to those decisions by reading the notes. So it has to be transparent. There's a little bit of a joke from going from everybody decides together to a Socicratic system. The joke is or the line is that if everybody decides everything together, everybody knows how little gets done and if it's decided in a sociocratic way, hardly anybody knows how much is getting done because it's all in different places. So that's why written notes, in whatever way one does it, are so important. Another piece is operational roles. So some people think it stops with circles. That's not true. You can also just cluster certain tasks and certain decisions and create a role and then give it to a person. And each person can hold different roles. Like in my organization I hold, I don't know, 15 roles or so. So I do a few hours of this here and a few hours of that there and that's how we piece together the mix of the things that we do. But it's clearly assigned to a circle and it clearly is held by a circle in terms of setting the frame. So it's clear what I'm doing. Let's see. So let's talk a little bit about linking and that's not so super relevant in practice, it's more that I want you to see it to understand the spirit of sociopathy again about how do we manage power and how do we decentralize power while still keeping everything connected. And it's this. So if now we have these two people here, right, the person in yellow and the person in like bluish stripes, I guess, or something, that's the same person here, right? Or the same people here. And now if we want to make sure that this circle is well represented on the general circle, we need to make sure that the people here carry the information properly, right in both directions. And for that we have a delegate, this person that is. So this person also the same thing, right, is selected by this group but also needs to be okayed by this group. So both of these groups have that person as a decision making member and therefore both of those groups need to be able to say yes, we want to work with you. You can't just push somebody onto a group until circusly and then here it goes the other way. This person typically can be done differently, but it's typically chosen by this group like hey, lead this department please. But also the group that is being led by that person needs to okay that. You can't just give a group a leader and say that's now your boss, that's not how things work in Socicracy. And ultimately now that leads with a leader and delegate here leads to a pattern a little bit like this. This is a graphic from a book, many was just one song and you see how information can now flow. And one of the side comments here is that if this person is giving a report about what's happening here or this person is giving a report what's happening here, we always have that second person in the room to give a little bit of a reality check. So we're not creating a bottleneck where information just comes from one person who will have a stake at making things look good, for example. So it's more transparent to have those two people. I want to just show something. This is from a different slide set as you can see, something that I did especially for Dows. I just want to reflect a little bit on decentralization and the different forms of decentralization. So in socioeconomy as I said, the people who work together decide together. So we have these teams with separate domains and the duo is other deciders, right? That's a little simplified but that's basically the system. And then the system in a system where we vote is that we have this ring of members or token holders that vote on stuff and some of the doors doers will of course also be it. So this is more the pattern here of decentralization and this was a cratic pattern. It's more like this. I know it's a simplification but just to give you a sense of decentralization means different things or it can mean different things. Decentralization has different nuances to it and then from the same slide deck, just something I hardly talk about when I talk just about sociocracy because it tends to be unusual. There is how do we deal with the fact that we have people who are Doers and deciders here but then we have people who for whatever reason because they're different scenarios might have a say or might want to give input. So what do we do basically with the general membership of the organization, whatever that means. And from where I sit that can mean all kinds of things. That can mean the parents of the school, that can mean the members of the Food corp, it can mean the members of the member nonprofit or whatever. So there's so many different organizations that actually have this pattern of there's a bigger group that is not operationally involved but needs to have a say. And that to me is the big design challenge of Dows because in DAOs we need to balance what the people get to decide who are operating the thing and what the people decide who we've invited saying that they can be decision makers on something and there's all kinds of ways of doing that. One of the things that is more kind of the Socicratic style of doing it is to use that kind of member or that stakeholder group, let me call it that, for input, not necessarily for decision making but again, it's a design question of where do you draw that line between deciding and giving feedback and on what. So there's all kind of the Lego bricks of how one can design that. There are many of them and I think one has a lot of flexibility using a system like sociocracy in this way. Okay, just a few more things because structure is really, I think, the most important one. But I do need to say a few more things to give you a little bit of appreciation for what sociocracy is in the different systems. So one is that thanks to the clustering or the chopping up of domains and putting it into circles, what we get from that is small groups, right? Because we're not deciding in a group of 30. We say hey, only the people who deal with this and that you are in our circle. So now we have group sizes more like this or even smaller, four, five, six people. And what that gives us is that we can create a situation where people can actually listen to each other in a more deep way. So one of the ways we do that, for example, is that we will often talk in rounds. What that means is if we're, for example, trying to solve a problem we are now going to brainstorm by talking one by one by one by one so that everybody can hear everybody without getting interrupted or proven wrong right away and all that stuff. So it creates more of a culture of listening to each other and really taking in what the other one is saying instead of jumping on them right away. Then when it comes to decision making, we all know there's somebody decides, there's majority vote, there's consensus. Where does sociocy fit in? Decisions or policy decisions. So decisions that are kind of setting the general frame of things like for example, creating a role or making a membership policy or things like that, they will be decided by consent and consent is the most similar to consensus but it's not quite the same. I would say that people discuss that. So in consent we don't ask do you like the proposal? But we ask do you think this proposal will work? Because people might like it. That means they consent. That's sweet but they might also say that's not necessarily what I wanted, but it is totally fine to achieve what we want to achieve and in that case both of those mean consent. So one can say yes to something that one didn't necessarily favor just because it also leads to a good result. We do object and say no. If there's a clash this is supposed to symbolize a clash here if there's a clash with the aim and that goes back to remember when I said in the beginning the definition of a circle? It has an aim and a domain. So we make decisions in our domain to support the aim, right? So if a proposal comes that is at odds with the aim we would have to say no, right? Because if our aim is to run a community garden and somebody makes a proposal that would imply that now we're going to spend three weeks in summer traveling. That's probably not going to work because our garden is going to dry out and die while we're gone. So in that case, not only are we allowed to say no to the proposal, I would even say we should say no because we came together to achieve a certain aim and we collectively are responsible to that aim. So in that way, objections are not a bad thing, quite the opposite. Objections are helping us to stay on track. So it has a whole different way of looking at objections and looking at people who say no, but that has a lot more appreciation for those people who help us see things that we might have missed otherwise. Just to be clear, all the decision makers in a domain, so all the Circle members in a domain have to give consent to a decision. If one person objects, we're going to talk more and hear what that person is seeing that we might be missing. So consent always means 100% of the Circle members. If somebody from a different Circle doesn't like what we're doing, that's a whole different thing. They can give feedback, but they can't stop us because we don't want people who haven't been part of the discussion and aren't part of the daily work and doing those things. We don't want them to walk into a meeting, crash our party and say, no, you shouldn't be doing this. Because that creates a very unhealthy dynamic in many organizations. So those who work together decide together on that team level, almost done. But the people who serve in roles, might it be an operational role or the role of a linking position or whatever else, these are selected by a certain process. It ends on consent. So for example, I am leader of the General Circle in my organization. And the way I got into that position was because everybody in the General Circle gave their consent to me being the leader of that group. And then I am that for a certain term. In this case, often it's like a year or six months. In this case, because it's a big brawl, it's a three year term. So in May next year, my term is up. And then we'll have to decide together what's going to happen next. So everything is always on a term, so that we don't just have leaders who are leaders, because at some point somebody made them that, but hardly anybody remembers how that even happened. So it's always fresh and kind of kept up to date. So Sargassy is used in all kinds of places. Communities, schools, nonprofits, businesses. What did I forget? Co ops, for example. That's more variation. So all over the place, just for a quick view, so you see a little of what that looks like when it's a little more fleshed out. This is the organizational diagram of my organization. So here we have the General Circle and then main circles. And you see it. The fractal system goes down and down and down and then it's always linked here like two people from here will be here and so on and so on. We also have a mission circle for the long term thinking as our advisory board, so to speak. So Circuit for all gives courses, beginner courses, facilitation. We also teach communication alongside with it and we do everything kind of beginning to end. We do also certification and so on. So if you're interested in that we can look at this page. There are books as well. This is more for children or working with children. This is kind of the reference manual about how sociocracy works, kind of everything in one handbook. And then this is for how to start and who decides in the beginning what the aim is, who the members are and so on. How does one go about that in a shared way. So this is basically the template on how to do that and I think that's it.
[ 0:28:41.000 ---> 0:29:18.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you very much for that. Fairly in depth and yet succinct presentation. Really appreciate it. If anyone has any questions, just raise your hand here to use it. And then in the meantime, maybe as you think of any questions that you might have actually, I know you mentioned that it's the topic of one of the books, but I was very curious to ask since I imagine you've seen a bunch of these transformations, and maybe in DAOs it's a little bit different. But at least in your experience, where does one start? What are some do's and don'ts that you have seen in that space?
[ 0:29:19.000 ---> 0:31:33.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, so it depends. To me one basic question about how do you start is how big are you? Right? And the question is not so much how many people are kind of discussing things, the question is how many people are operationally involved and consider themselves decision makers. If it's more than 15 ish or maybe twelve people then it's a little bit of an ordeal because then well, let me talk about that. Second, if you're fewer people and you can still get into one room kind of virtually or not, but you can still be in one conversation and listen to each other, then that who decides. Who decides works well because what it does is walk a group through deciding how they decide, deciding what the aim is, who their members are and so on. If you're bigger and that is the case right in many organizations, then it's a little tricky because hold on 1 second, kid interruption, sorry. When it's a bigger group, then the biggest problem and that I see in Dow space, in the Dow space too, the biggest problem is to decide who decides who decides about the governance system. And if you don't have a way to decide that you're incredibly stuck because then you can't decide how you decide how you decide and that question of legitimacy of who makes the decisions about our governance system is dishearteningly. Paralyzing for groups. So the only piece of advice is it's always messy and it's always really frustrating and annoying, but the only piece of advice that I have is that sometimes it's best just to inspire people and train people and get them excited. And then maybe the question of legitimacy doesn't even need to be answered because everybody's so excited about doing this thing. But still you need a group that kind of holds it and carries it that is trusted by the rest. So that's, I think, one of the biggest struggles that we're dealing with as consultants.
[ 0:31:35.000 ---> 0:32:08.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, interesting and interesting to see this approach. If someone had a question, I think it disappeared. I cannot see you anymore, so please raise your hand again. But I seen very much from experience, I end up in that situation with a community in that the leadership kind of abandoned the community and then it was just a bunch of us community members going like, well, we want to decide on a new structure, but how do we decide who decides? Because we cannot invite the whole community. Do we have the right to invite them? Do we have the legitimacy?
[ 0:32:08.000 ---> 0:32:09.000 ] Speaker B : Exactly.
[ 0:32:10.000 ---> 0:32:49.000 ] Speaker A : It's horrendous. And then it takes such tremendous amount of time just to get to the basics and then the work hasn't even begun. And I guess in Dows, well, there is the voting mechanism in many cases, which can help this. But the question of legitimacy is sometimes kind of, let's say, delegated to if the smart contract allows you or if the snapshot voting allows you. But those seem to be cop out and I can see many challenges going in that direction. Christina, if you'd like to go for it, please.
[ 0:32:50.000 ---> 0:32:50.000 ] Speaker B : Okay.
[ 0:32:50.000 ---> 0:34:11.000 ] Speaker C : So I'm not a member of any Dows. I just watch how people work on software projects. And a software project is very oftentimes very much a democracy. Like the people who say, I need this feature, how it's actually built is totally up to the people actually doing the work or how much testing is going to be done to it. Everything about the implementation is frequently out of the control of everybody but the people that are working on it. So in that sense, there's already like a natural circle operationally deciding, and then there's other circles already that might be making designs and then other circles that are just using whatever the thing is. So I'm wondering if the step is, well, we already have these circles for whatever mechanism you want, just pick a representative and then we'll talk about this. So that way maybe that would be like a very primitive way of starting that would get at least different types of people in the room. Because I guess from the developer point of view, the people asking for requests are often like insane. And from the user's point of view, the developers are these magical wizards. At least this way they'll get to talk about what the priorities are, maybe everything is fine or maybe they do.
[ 0:34:12.000 ---> 0:34:12.000 ] Speaker B : Changes.
[ 0:34:14.000 ---> 0:34:16.000 ] Speaker C : But I don't know, not being in a doubt.
[ 0:34:20.000 ---> 0:35:36.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. And I think in those kind of contexts, Christina, the work is more in making explicit what is already implicit so that one can talk about it. Right. Because in all of these things, one thing that I pay attention to is not only how do we make it work, but also how do we make it work so that it becomes a self regulating or self healing mechanism. So do we always have a place where something can be decided if it can't be decided? So in your scenario, that sort of works, but I would still not know how it would work if it doesn't work. Right. Like how do we pull our head out of the sling if it doesn't work? That's why I find this whole concept of, for example, having a general circuit that decides it decides and that then has a mission circuit that decides what the overall aim is and so on. That's so smart because it's so resilient, because you always have a way to resolve it, because it's already delivered in the structure that you have a next higher something that you can resolve it with. I guess the way I think about it, for implementations and the question of how do you start, there's kind of different levels of depth. Right? So what you're describing is great, but it's not at the level quite that it's a resilient system. So that's where I am ultimately trying to go, to have resilient systems.
[ 0:35:38.000 ---> 0:35:40.000 ] Speaker A : Renzo, please go for it.
[ 0:35:41.000 ---> 0:36:45.000 ] Speaker D : Hello, Daniel. Hello, Ted. Thanks so much for your time, your presentation. I just have a question about how in and there is a way to tackle the performance or about the deciders, which means that if there is a circle that decide about something and when I share my proposal and I'm not happy about that and so I could definitely do an objection. But in the first place, where we select these people, can we also select how they should perform their decisions in order to have, let's say, more alignment if something doesn't go in a certain direction? So this is a contest. I had experience in DAOs. We shared also with some work, sometimes with Daniel in the past. But for me, when I also learn about how it's evolving, that's something I feel is missing. And I wonder if in circuitry there.
[ 0:36:45.000 ---> 0:39:36.000 ] Speaker B : Is a solution for this. Yeah, I think I understand the question. Well, to me, there's one thing I want to go to first is where do proposals come from? And sometimes, especially in kind of a voting culture, proposals are made and then people vote, but they don't kind of organically come from a group. While if you have a circle that is small enough, ideally, and I know there's different flavors about this, but I personally this is just me, Ted, speaking, not speaking for sociocracy because I know not everybody who does sociocy does it in that way. But I personally am not a huge fan of proposals know in all the details written up. When I see it for the first time when I'm a Circle member, I see that the proposals are most successful if they were basically written together by the team. And there are also processes in sociocracy by which one can do that. So the situation shouldn't even occur is what I'm saying. The other piece is that in a way I want to answer it also with the distinction that sociocracy makes between policy decisions and operational decisions or in holocratic terms it would be governance versus tactical stuff. The way I see the difference is policy decisions are general decisions, kind of rules about how this and that is done or like guidelines that steer how we do things in general. Okay, so it's more kind of in bulk kind of thing versus operational decisions are what do I do about this one instance right now? Is there a rule that applies? Oh, no, there isn't. Okay, so I guess I have to decide something just on this one instance. And for example, this is not an unusual thing. I always say sometimes people are like, oh my God, that's so complicated. I have to know which one it is. But every child knows if they ask for permission on something. If my child asks for permission, can I stay out till midnight tonight? And I say yes. They know that I didn't just give permission for each night into the future. So we all understand the difference between a one time decision, a one time thing and a general decision. So that is the difference between operations and policy. The reason I said that is because what I hear from you is that you wish there was a place to not only make a decision about this one thing, but also kind of set a little bit of a frame of this is how we go about things, this is how we do this and that. These are the value sets guiding this and that. These are the priorities for the next six months. That's more policy decisions which in sociocracy would be set by the Circle. So you bring that question up and then you come to a proposal or you bring a readymade proposal and make that decision so that you set the frame together and then people can go carry things out from there. Correct? Yeah.
[ 0:39:36.000 ---> 0:39:54.000 ] Speaker D : You understood exactly the contest about having a wider framework where a decision needs to be made. How do you make sure there is more transparency how the decision is made? Because otherwise you are just a decider of yes or no, right?
[ 0:39:54.000 ---> 0:41:10.000 ] Speaker B : Exactly. It lacks the nuances and it lacks the element of co creation. That's the sad piece for me because you're missing out on so much already and often in these kind of situations where there's kind of this proposal culture, right? Like a very individualistic culture where one person just makes a proposal and then you only can say yes or no. It has a very fragmented feel to it. It's almost like you're building a house, but you have these huge blocks that you can build it out of, like, well, now, where do I fit that in? It just seems too crude of a system and it lacks the like, hey, let's build the foundation, let's talk about the bathrooms kind of approach. And then one other thing about that, though, is that sometimes it is not fully clear and that needs to be clarified. Those general frameworks about, let's say, what are our value sets, what are priorities kind of things, or how do we go about this and that? That might be a domain question then, because the question might surface in a subsub, sub circle, but it might actually belong more in a sort of higher circle. So that sometimes needs a little bit of clarification where those overarching guidelines sit. Thank you.
[ 0:41:10.000 ---> 0:41:22.000 ] Speaker D : I just want to complete sorry for taking too much time. I just want to say that so your suggestion is to have basically a circle for operational decision and one circle for policy decisions.
[ 0:41:22.000 ---> 0:43:07.000 ] Speaker B : No, thank you for asking. No, to me, they sit together. So let's do an example. Hold on. What's a good example here? No, they sit together according to the domain. So in each domain, they are basically policy decisions and they're operational decisions because you set the frame and then you just follow your own frame by making operational decisions. Hold on. I also have a slide for you on this. Like this. How do I show this tab? Yeah. So this is the overall organization, okay? This is, for example, our community garden. This is infrastructure. This is whatever it was, people and so on. And then they set basically the frame by saying, okay, there's certain workflows, there's certain roles that we have, certain rules that we have, and so on. And they set that. And then the operational decisions ideally just follow from that, but they're in the same realm. So let's look at membership. Let's say this is membership, okay? Membership circle. They now have roles and they have certain workflows of how you become a member, for example. And then you have operational decisions that either just follow from the workflow, like the person filled out this and that form, therefore now they get access to this and that, or we have certain roles, or there are things that are in our domain of membership, but they don't have any rule yet that tells us how to make this operational decision. So then we just make it as a one off and we just decide it belongs together. And that, to me, is actually the cool thing about it, that you can have it made by the same group.
[ 0:43:08.000 ---> 0:43:10.000 ] Speaker D : Thank you clear. Thanks a lot.
[ 0:43:10.000 ---> 0:43:13.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you. Paolo, please go for it.
[ 0:43:17.000 ---> 0:43:50.000 ] Speaker E : Thank you so much for the presentation, Ted. I couldn't help but notice that there was a topic that was missing and it relates very much to DAOs, which is the topic of ownership with the owner of the organization. Right. And in DAOs, usually it is presented as everybody can be the owner of the organization at some point in some kind of dimension. And I would just like you to ask you about how that is handled in sociocracy.
[ 0:43:51.000 ---> 0:45:17.000 ] Speaker B : Yes, that's such an interesting one. So, yes, I mean the way just as a why did I not talk about that? Because I am very aware that in my worldview, this is kind of a modular thing. I'm just talking about the governance. Ownership is its own module, right. How do you manage ownership? And sociocracy is basically compatible with different modules. So, for example, the reason why sociocracy is strong in co ops is because of that shared ownership, right? And like worker co ops for so it's compatible with shared ownership. It's also compatible with when basically nobody owns it. I know that's not where Dows are, but more like a commons approach. Just as a fun fact, the reason we as sociocracy for all are incorporated as a nonprofit is because that was at the time the closest to the ideal of an organization that can't be owned because it's its own entity. So that's why that was the choice. Sociocracy itself doesn't make a statement about ownership because you can plug it in. But of course one person owning a thing and then pretending that we make decisions about it together doesn't match. Right. That's why it's not being picked up so much in the world of single proprietary ownership, which makes perfect sense.
[ 0:45:19.000 ---> 0:45:22.000 ] Speaker A : Paolo, is that a continuation on the same point?
[ 0:45:22.000 ---> 0:46:12.000 ] Speaker E : Yeah, I was just to go a little bit deeper on it, is that I was trying to figure out if the motivations of people that are deciding and people that are belonging to the general circle, for example, if they are owners of the organization more than the other ones are owners of the organization if that would influence their decisions in somehow and if that would somehow corrupt the system, let's say. And so I was trying to understand if there should be a guideline as to how ownership should be distributed for sociocracy to really work, because I do think that in a nonprofit scenario, it works the best, probably, but as soon as you start to put in the element of ownership, it can disturb the balance a little bit, it seems.
[ 0:46:15.000 ---> 0:47:36.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, and I agree with you on that. And then there's all kinds of models like this with fair shares models and so on. So there's all kinds of stuff. I just wanted to show one little thing real quick. Let's see if that's yes. Here, just to give you a little bit of an idea of how people are thinking about it in this space. Also wait. Yes. For example, in a co op. There we go. So this would be the mission circle. I don't know if you're fast enough in kind of grasping this. So this is general circle, mission circle, and then there is a stakeholder circle, basically. Or another way of thinking about it is I'd skipped it earlier. If you have this, remember that. So the Mission Circle can have basically stakeholder groups, like groups that represent stakeholder groups. So one could have anyway, but that's maybe also a little too deep and too far away from it. But the whole point being that there could be stakeholder groups like aligned with ownership levels or something like that that are kind of in addition to the worker, say the worker voice. Or it could be combined in some other way. So there's just too many options to really talk about meaningfully.
[ 0:47:36.000 ---> 0:48:36.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, I've been seeing some parallels to that in the way, for example, associations can have a board of governance and that board ends up instituting a certain model of operational governance. In this case could be sociocracy or something else. But then the decision of do we do sociocracy or do we do something else? Or what are going to be the rules of the game and how do we change them? That kind of, like, almost meta governance level can be handled through a different mechanism, which is a little bit also, we're having a conversation with Brian from Holocracy the other day, and that was a little bit the direction that we were saying or now, because I've been involved a little bit or was involved with the Aragon Association. Now they're talking about the token holders becoming members of the Swiss Association. So then they can vote on a governance model. And I don't know how that will end up being decided, but at least there are some patterns in that direction that seem interesting.
[ 0:48:37.000 ---> 0:50:20.000 ] Speaker B : Can I just make one comment on that one? Because please, that's actually something that is quite dear to me and it might be just me nerding out for 1 second. But here's the thing. In a Socicratic system, in my reading, like the way I practice it and the way also we practice it in our organization, the Constitution, what would be the constitution in a locacracy, which we call simply a governance agreement, is yet just another piece of policy that lives in a domain. And in our case, the governance agreement is held in Mission Circle. And Mission Circle by consent, decides what the governance system is. So if we make change in what the definition of consent is, for example, we would have a place where that is decided and it would be here. So we can actually do and I know the idea of Holocracy is that we're all equals under the Constitution in sociocracy. To me, that's actually one step more radical and that is that the Constitution is also just a piece of policy that lives in a domain that can be changed somewhere. So that's just a really interesting kind of spin on that of those like there is no such thing as a meta decision in sociocracy because it all plugs into a domain and can be decided. And of course that means the implication of that is that in sociocracy for all, for example, all the 190 members have to trust that the mission circle is going to give us a governance system or maintain the governance system that we're okay with because we've given away that power to those seven people. That's quite something actually. And we can, for example, also change the mission like we changed the mission fairly recently. That's a big step too.
[ 0:50:21.000 ---> 0:50:49.000 ] Speaker A : Powerful delegation, a lot of power. Delegated I have a question here from Onchain. He says a piece that seemed implied. A Dao is not a term project. Therefore the lifecycle of a Dao is expected to be infinite in the planning and governing process. Perhaps a moot point, but when doing a Dao or a non Dao comparison of these HR gov processes, it occurs to me that there is a Dao never ending narrative which sociocracy is built upon comment.
[ 0:50:52.000 ---> 0:50:59.000 ] Speaker B : It'S a Dao never ending narrative. I don't understand the question well enough.
[ 0:50:59.000 ---> 0:51:52.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah. On Chain maybe you can comment but the way I understand it is never ending as when we are talking the difference of a one time decision versus policy. The same way we can talk about a project versus an ongoing team or the way that might operate. The dow is generally not conceived. And here I'm paraphrasing on chain, if you want to either type or unmute yourself, please go ahead. But the way I'm understanding it is this idea that the Tao is not perceived to end at some point. It's not like we're going to do this thing and once it's done, it finishes. So if there is perhaps a parallel that sociocracy perhaps because it has this ability for the mission to be updated or the policies to be updated, to be continuously evolving and regenerating like regenerating its own reason for being.
[ 0:51:52.000 ---> 0:52:28.000 ] Speaker B : Yes, and that is I'm glad that is coming up. Yes. Because to me, in order to be alive, right, like in I know some of you might be aware of reinventing organizations and that whole piece of kind of teal organizations because having your own purpose and being able to change and adapt in your purpose, that is a sign of something being alive, right? So it has to be in a way so that it can adapt or maybe even decide to die. I mean, that might be in the bigger scheme of things, something that an organization might have to do because its mission is complete.
[ 0:52:30.000 ---> 0:53:22.000 ] Speaker A : Super interesting. Jose and Walter apologies, we're running out of time. If you accept the invitation but very much up to you. Maybe we can continue the conversation on the Dao Discord. I'll share the link for everyone if we want to continue there or otherwise. Hopefully in the future, we can arrange another occasion. As I was saying, for anyone interested in that, the link is at the bottom of this one that I shared, and once you verify, there is a learning and discussion channel and we can continue these there. Otherwise, thanks a lot of everyone for participating. And Ted, thank you so much for your time. Really appreciate sharing about sociocracy and has been quite an inspiring conversation.
[ 0:53:23.000 ---> 0:53:24.000 ] Speaker B : Thank you.
[ 0:53:27.000 ---> 0:53:31.000 ] Speaker A : Have a great day. Great rest of the day, everyone. Bye.
