[ 0:00:06.000 ---> 0:01:43.000 ] Speaker A : All right, well, welcome again, everyone. My name is Daniel, one of the instigators of R Dao. We are a research and development Dao, researching DAOs, funded by Dao, DAOs, and so on. And as we try to explore this question of what's the future of organizations and what are better ways to empower humane collaboration, which is our mission statement, one of the things we have realized is that sharing knowledge across the different silos across the different disciplines and pockets that have been looking at these quite complicated question of how we humans can better work together is really fundamental. And so the purpose of these talks is precisely to share knowledge, bring people together and spark conversations. Today, I'm quite excited to bring Francesca with us, who's been working in the self management field for quite a while. I'll pass it on to her to share a little bit more about her background so she'll give us a presentation, and then at the end of that, we'll open it up for questions. But importantly, and hear me out not only for questions, you're also very much invited to bring your own ideas, your own thoughts and comments. We want this to be a multilateral discussion, not just a Q and A. So we'll start with a good prompt to spark the conversation, but we don't stop there. So please feel free to think over all your questions. If there is anything that you'd like to ask, you can also write it down in the chat in the meantime, but we'll take questions at the end. So, with that being said, thank you all for coming. And Francesca, thank you very much for joining us. Over to you.
[ 0:01:44.000 ---> 0:08:34.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah. Thank you, Daniel. And great to be here and to see all your faces, see some familiar faces and some new ones. So that's always a great combination. So, yeah, I guess really briefly about me before I jump into the meaty topic that I'm quite excited to share some ideas on and then dive into the discussion with you all after probably like 2025 minutes. Let's see how long I take. So I've pretty much been working in this field of, let's say, new ways of organizing for about ten years, and I really got started in the We Share network that some of you have heard of and mentioned earlier. That really was sort of the experimentation ground that I landed in right after my studies, where I just had the opportunity that I'm really grateful for to just experiment and learn by doing with sort of an ambition to create a new type of organization just based on what the people in this community that was gathering around certain shared values and sort of a vision for society to just create the kind of workplace that we needed. And so I'm a person who isn't really that much into theory, I got to say. I'm very much a practical learner. I like just applying things and sort of taking concepts and immediately doing it. So I would say that most of the knowledge that I have comes out of this big combination of taking lots of different bits and pieces that I've learned from other people, from other groups and then had the opportunity to just apply and see what happens. And so I guess after quite a few years in the WeShare community that I spent a lot of time helping develop I had a whole sort of phase where I went out into the world more and started exploring other networks and communities that had evolved sort of in parallel with similar types of missions and also ways of organizing. And that's when I started seeing a lot of really interesting patterns around the challenges that those groups had encountered. One of them was especially the Inspiral network from New Zealand that I sort of got quite involved in around 2016. And so what was really interesting is sort of in going to these different networks to see how similar some of the stumbling blocks were that we had run into and to just really start bringing together a lot of the knowledge that was there and starting to see, okay, how can we actually learn from this and get to the next level in terms of how we actually make this way of organizing work? Because, of course, there were a lot of challenges and growing pains and difficult lessons learned. And so what was quite interesting is after a few years of being in a bunch of those networks, I then started getting a bit more interested in what was happening in the Web Three space and I would say was quite involved at the very early stages of some dows. I definitely have sort of taken a bit more of a distance since then. Like I haven't been as involved in the last two years and since it's a very very fast moving space things are changing every month. But what was really interesting to see in the Web Three space is that it sort of felt like another phase happening of many people around the world that are super smart, that are very passionate and have really strong values, wanting to address these questions of how to organize differently and better and going through some of the same growing pains and the same challenges that I had seen a lot of the networks I was part of going through those again and in many cases reinventing things from scratch and having similar challenges, which probably we also I want to humbly say like in WeShare, we probably could have learned a whole lot by looking more backwards and looking to other groups and structures out there and what they were doing. So part of I guess the reason I do the work that I do now is to really help all of the different networks, communities, organizations out there that are trying to do new ways for organizing to actually tap. Into all this knowledge and all of these important lessons we've learned and to actually start building that knowledge and growing it so that we can figure out these difficult questions and get better at it. So for the last five years, the main space that I've been doing this work within is a collective that I started called Greater Than. And so one of our missions is to help these new ways of organizing really succeed and for the different organizations out there that are trying this to be able to maybe make some leaps forward and not have to learn everything over again from scratch. So I guess that sort of brings me right into why I picked the topic of this session, the leadership myths and misconceptions. And that is that through the work that we've been doing with greater than with a lot of different organizations that want to implement often they call it self management. That there's so many, I guess, misunderstandings or certain stories. About what this is that keep popping up and that sort of every time we enter a new group, they show up again, and then you have to sort of debunk it and reclarify what is actually the intention of this self management thing, for lack of a better word, of what we're going to call it here. But so I thought it would be really interesting, especially in the context of web three also, to bring some of those very common myths and misconceptions that we keep hearing again and again into the space and use them as a bit of a kickoff for discussion. So I think with that I want to share four myths with you and give a bit of a context around what those are and how they show up. So, myth number one. So a lot of organizations that are trying to do self management, let's say, I think that they come often from a tradition or maybe a past where there's this idea of management in a traditional sense where you're not seeing the slides. Of course, I'm sorry. Thank you for the reminder. Now I need to actually start sharing the slides. Here we go. Does everyone see the slides?
[ 0:08:35.000 ---> 0:08:37.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, seeing great, thank you.
[ 0:08:37.000 ---> 0:26:03.000 ] Speaker B : Okay, so myth number one. So leading means taking control, right? So I was talking about this tradition of management that we often conflate with leadership, and that is very much connected to this idea that the leader is taking control and that they're in some way exerting power over others. That there's maybe even some coercion or force, which is really also based on this general idea that comes from that we see historically in management. That also comes from how society is structured. From the idea that we have a military that can actually enforce things with certain force with power. Right. But yeah, so basically this idea that the only way that I can lead, if I'm leading, that I'm taking control. And somehow doing something to others that I'm exerting power over them obviously makes it quite scary to step into leadership if that's what you think it is or you think that that's the only way to do it. And so often something we hear people say is I can't step in and do anything about this problem I'm seeing in this organization because we're self managing and we don't want to be taking control and telling others you have to do this and imposing something. And so that actually brings me very closely to this really key idea that a thinker called Mary Parker Fullett already was bringing out in the 1920s, which is pretty incredible, which really underlies this whole concept, I would say, which is that we're trying to shift from an idea of power over to power with. And many of you have maybe heard about this before, I think that sometimes people switch from power over to power under. They sort of just flip it. But the idea of power with is really this physical notion of stepping in together and that all the different individuals in the room, they hold different types of power and they're holding it together in that way. And I think that there's something very challenging about this concept of power with that it's hard to intellectually really understand it is my impression. I feel like it's something that you can energetically feel if you've been in the experience of it, it somehow makes sense. But yeah, that is really this key underlying idea that we're trying to step into power with. And so that brings me to the second myth, which I would say is probably the biggest myth of them all. Like if there's one you want to remember, it's this one, which is this idea that if we're getting rid of managers, we're getting rid of leadership completely and that there's no leadership, which I would say is actually exactly the opposite of what we want, which is we want lots of leadership. And so I think that what's really interesting is that many of the groups that we work with, I never recall ever mentioning that when we're doing self management there's not going to be leadership anymore. But somehow this idea that there is no leadership is always there. There's always many people that show up with it and saying, oh, but there's no leadership, right? So if that's not okay to do that and I wonder sometimes maybe it's coming from sort of tradition of democracy and thinking like okay, so everyone has to be equal and these are democratic structures that are influencing that. I also think that many organizations that choose a path of doing self management maybe have very bad experiences with management from the past or even traumas around that type of leadership that's coercive and so they tend to sort of completely push it away and reject it. So there's a real fear of anyone stepping into leadership. And I really think that this not happening, people not being able to step in, is really to the detriment of a lot of really great organizations and their missions and what they're trying to do. And so one really key point here is, I think, about this idea of equality because a lot of people, they always say, yes, there's no leadership because we must all be equal, we're all the same. And in the spiral dynamics speak, if you're at all familiar with spiral dynamics, this is a very green concept. So basically everyone has to get the same share. It's very like, yeah, just egalitarian. And so I think what's really important is that we're having a bit of a conflation happening there of equality on many different planes, when actually we need to be more differentiated. And I think that La Lu actually articulates this quite interestingly, which is that when we talk about equality, where we definitely want to have equality is every individual's value as a human right. Like we are all equally valid living beings here, with the right to be here, with the right to express ourselves, to be creative, all of those things. We are equal from that dignity, humanist perspective. But on the other hand, where we're not equal is when we think about the roles we might hold, the contributions we might make. And depending on the context, we're going to have different roles of power. And so we are definitely not going to be equal in this kind of context. And I think that's one of the big confusions. And the other thing that's really interesting about this is that I often feel like people talk about leadership as it being sort of a scarce resource. So if I step into leadership, then I'm taking that away from others and then they can't when the way I've experienced it is completely the opposite. If you step in, that gives permission for others to step in as well. And that actually it lifts everyone up so that we can all step into our leadership, which each of us might have a different quality to that, a different space where we're bringing it. There's a huge diversity around that. So, yeah, I think that what's really important to emphasize on this point around how we can all step into leadership in our own way is really this, I guess, assumption that if we're in a self managing team or organization, that my assumption at least is that we're creating it from a place of partnership and a place of adult to adult relating. Right. So it's sort of moving away from this idea of parent child, which traditional management is also very based on. So the manager is the parent or the leader and the employees are the children. But that we are all adults that are responsible for ourselves and that we all have an equal right to create the context that we're stepping into together. And that's really important. So basically in a way, you could see like, the organization has a set of rules of the game that we can all contribute to and we can choose to opt out. Right? And that's a really key piece. If I'm not feeling like this is actually the right place for me to contribute, I can decide to leave, I'm not forced to stay. Right? And so I think from this foundation of we are all equal partners in that idea of partnership, then all of this possibility opens up for us to hold different roles of power in different ways. So I think maybe this becomes a bit more clear if I go to the third myth that also sort of goes a bit deeper into like, what are these qualities of leadership? So the third myth being that leadership is often seen as an identity. So I am a leader, you are not. Or maybe I have these certain special qualities just because I was born with them and therefore can be a leader. And I think the notion that we really try to work with much more that I think makes it much more accessible to everyone is really leadership. Almost more like an adjective or a verb. So the verb being the act of leading that I can do in one moment and then I can stop doing it in another. And the adjective which, I mean, this is a bit of a sort of made up word that we like to use, but it's leaderful. So someone is maybe being leaderful in a certain instance. And really I think that leadership often not even being about what you do, but it's about how you show up and the way you are being in a certain space and holding yourself. And so I really think that taking this perspective makes leadership something that isn't just reserved for a few special people, but that everyone can start seeing themselves within and that any person can have a part of. And so that actually brings me to the fourth myth, which is this very common idea that leadership is really visionary leadership. So I think for many of us, the traditional concept of what a leader is, it's like we think of Steve Jobs or someone who's standing on a stage sharing a big idea. And while that is definitely a form of leadership, what I've found extremely helpful is to actually start looking more into what are actually much more detailed facets of what leadership can be. And there's actually a woman called Alana Irving, a friend, who was very active in the Inspiral network for many years, and she developed a concept that I think really beautifully articulates this diversity of different ways that leadership can manifest. And that shows how visionary leadership is actually just one piece of that. And that I think it's super important for us to acknowledge much more diversity in how leadership can look to then again, make it more accessible, make it something that many of us can actually see ourselves stepping into and holding as well. And so I just thought it would be nice to actually briefly show this model that she's created called Full Circle leadership. And so basically she's identified all of these different leadership styles you could say, or like leadership profiles or types. You can do like a little quiz and everything to find out what your type is. But basically she differentiates on the one hand between sort of the more visionary types of leadership and the more operational ones. And also I think the line is, if I remember it's like this way, if you can see my cursor, the more yin energy and the more yang energy. So just to briefly sort of talk you through what these are. So basically she talks about the leadership of sensing, which is a very female energy of basically sensing into the field of what's happening. It's a lot about listening, the leadership of inquiry, right? So asking questions, trying to understand what's going on, what are people thinking. Also very much related to deep listening. Then we have the Envisioning, which this is basically the profile that represents the classic leader that many of us are familiar with as a concept. Then we have the leadership of prototyping, right? It's like getting out that dirty first version and just getting started. And then what I find super interesting is, especially when we go into the second half, this was a real epiphany for me in terms of how she was looking at this, that we have the leadership of evaluation. So trying to basically measure how are we doing with what we're doing of operationalizing maintenance and optimizing. And the idea, really is that you can be doing all of these different things and be showing up in a leaderful way within a group. And that in many cases, what you want to try to see is actually have teams and organizations where there's a balance of all of these different pieces and that only when you have those you could actually enable a project to really get through a good cycle and to close and to keep going through loops of improvement and growing and evolving. And one thing that I find especially interesting, I don't know if those of you more active in Web Three would agree as well for that space, but a lot of the networks and communities I'm in, there's many, many people that are super strong on the first four, let's say. And there tends to be a lot less like maintenance energy operationalizing, especially optimizing can sometimes be very low as well. And so I think what we often see is that there's lots of entrepreneurial energy to get things started and lots of new projects get kicked off, but a lot of them do not last and they sort of die because there's a lack of leadership energy around maintenance and all of these others. And so I think until we sort of shift our view to actually say hey, guess what? Leadership can include all of these things. I think we're missing a huge piece and we're not able to really acknowledge and value something that really is extremely important and that gives value and credit to work that many people are doing and often doing without a lot of visibility, without being acknowledged for that in the way that they should. So I think on the whole, what seems really important here, like if we look at sort of I guess one of the conclusions from all of these different myths that I think is really important is that leadership, the way we see it, at least in this new way of organizing, is something that's extremely contextual, dynamic and relational. And so based on the specific situation I'm in, I might choose to tap into these different energies because that might be what is needed at that moment. It's not that I'm always going to be the visionary or always going to be the optimizer. It's based on what the situation demands. It's also very dynamic. So this goes back to it's not that I am a leader and you are not, but it's something that can show up in lots of different places in different people at different moments. And it's sort of a dynamic dance and it's relational in the sense that we create some kind of frame or container together that we step into and inside of, that we are consenting to certain power dynamics and then we can step out of them or we can also renegotiate them. And so I think that's really important, that it's totally in line with self management to say, guess what? I'm going to step into a project and here I'm going to say, guess what? I really don't want to take a lot of responsibility, and I just want to follow the lead of this person, because that's the role I want to take here. Right? Maybe that's my choice and that's totally fine if that is the shared frame that the team has set up and that everyone has consented into. And so in that way it's this relational dynamic and these roles that we choose to take on and that we can then also change. So I think the last sort of idea that I just want to leave you with and also there's a nice graphic with this that also Alana made about how to grow distributed leadership is really this idea of self leadership. And I'm not trying to get you to read all these details here. I can send the presentation later if you want to take a look. This is actually coming from a book that I contributed to called Better Work Together. So that's just as a side note. But I think what's really important in all of this is that self leadership is the starting point for me. So before you're able to recognize yourself as a leader and your own power and your potential, you're not going to be able to see it in others and to support others to bring that out as well. So I really think that for each one of us here and for all of us all the time, really tuning into how can I acknowledge my own leadership and really develop myself? That with that starting point we have the best foundation to create thriving organizations and what I would see as true shared leadership, where we're each in our own leadership power and then coming together to make great projects happen. So, yeah, I think that's what I wanted to leave you with. And I'm excited to dive into some discussion and hear some questions.
[ 0:26:04.000 ---> 0:26:43.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, thank you. Thank you very much, Francesca, for sharing. If anyone would like to chip in with either, a question, a comment, some of your own ideas that you'd like to bring. I know, for example, Guy was wondering about the question of source. As I was saying, we'll have a talk specifically on that topic soon, but if you'd like to bring it up, please feel free that the space is yours. Just if you want to bring anything, raise your hand using the reactions at the bottom or otherwise you can type it in the chat and I'll bring it up for you if you don't necessarily want to chat. So let's start with butred of.
[ 0:26:45.000 ---> 0:26:46.000 ] Speaker C : Hi.
[ 0:26:46.000 ---> 0:26:47.000 ] Speaker B : Hi.
[ 0:26:47.000 ---> 0:27:27.000 ] Speaker C : I hope I'm audible. Let me begin by saying, if you were the pope, I'd change my religion. Coming back to your first slide, Francisca, the quotation that was there is I can't step in if I can see an issue because we are self managing. If I may flip the perspective from that of a newcomer to an organization, if I come in and I can already see that no matter the quality or the effort I put into the organization, the value or the method of value capture is extractionary in nature, is my concern not a valid one?
[ 0:27:31.000 ---> 0:28:44.000 ] Speaker B : Yes, absolutely. I would say that if the organization that you're stepping into, if it is focused on value capture and being extractive, then it's probably well, I don't know if it's self managing. Maybe it is, and then it maybe doesn't have the kind of mission that I would expect this to be in, because I think a lot of these ideas that have been shared, this idea of not having coercion power with being in partnership, those are fundamentally non extractive systems. That's the whole objective here. So you can't put this invitation like, oh, just step in and lead into an extractive system, then someone will probably could easily be harmed. Right. And it makes sense that they then need to protect themselves. So that's basically what we're trying to almost like reprogram that maybe you come into an organization where actually things are different and there is trust and there is psychological safety and there is this notion of true partnership. But of course, you can never know until you're there and you really try it out and see what you actually find. So yeah, I don't know if that answers your question.
[ 0:28:47.000 ---> 0:28:48.000 ] Speaker C : Yes, thank you.
[ 0:28:52.000 ---> 0:29:43.000 ] Speaker A : Something that comes to mind from that perspective is how much of the, let's say, the destructive organization pattern has to do precisely with other people not being able to sense and respond and bring into the forum what it is that they need. And instead of that is constrained by a very small group, quite often an anonymous group that they themselves are constrained. Which is the issue we have quite often with investment is the VCs are forced to follow a certain agenda because their limited partners want something and their limited partners need a certain agenda because they have investors that if they don't follow every single person across this chain is going to get fired and replaced by someone else who follows this agenda. And that's how we end up with global anonymous finance that lead us essentially in the system that we're going but Dee, over to you please.
[ 0:29:46.000 ---> 0:29:46.000 ] Speaker B : Hi.
[ 0:29:46.000 ---> 0:30:56.000 ] Speaker D : I just realized oh yeah, I left my hand up. I think this idea we use this term, the leader full and people recognizing kind of their leadership. And I think that we're just coming into spaces of I don't know. This is just a comment. It's a thing that made me my daughter works in sustainability, and we talk about biodiversity, and I think that we're not able to look at leadership in biodiversity in that framework. Right. That lions don't lead the same way the rabbit leads. I do a lot of animal renditions in that way. Right. And so there's leadership and it looks different. So it's almost like we've been siloed to only see leadership in a particular way. Right. And so now we're kind of opening up to the possibilities of leadership, having this biodiversity of leadership. And so the best way for you to express your leadership is to if you're the turtle or the bunny, right. You express it fully and bring it that's leader full instead of trying to dominate the entire ecosystem. Maybe.
[ 0:30:56.000 ---> 0:31:03.000 ] Speaker B : I guess that's how I would say that. Yeah, that's a really nice metaphor.
[ 0:31:06.000 ---> 0:31:29.000 ] Speaker A : Lisa Wilkin was bringing something, but I'll share in a second. Just wanted to say I really love the term biodiversity of leadership. It really aligns with a lot of the terminologies that are emerging. But anyway, Lisa was asking, what are you sensing works well for reprogramming at the individual and systemic level to shift towards self managing? A casual question.
[ 0:31:30.000 ---> 0:34:16.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, that's a pretty big mean. I think everyone obviously has their personal journey with this. It's a very personal thing for how this happens. And actually, I don't even like the term reprogramming. I know I put the word out there myself and one understands it, but something about it seems too mechanical. Like I'm. Changing some buttons. But I really think that embodiment is something really key in this actually working. And by that I mean that this change, you need to feel it physically what it's like. And I think to really develop the trust that something is different, you need to experience it. And I've got to say that one of the ways I was saying earlier how I'm a very practical learner, that the main way that I've learned is by putting myself in different systems and just starting to participate in them and through that, seeing, ah, okay, this is what it feels like to make a proposal. Or this is what it feels like to do that. And that was really one of the things that I got a lot from the Inspiral network when I came in. So I think that trying to create experiences where people can really get that felt sense that this is what it's supposed to feel like when it's working and then they can take that seed back to where they are and start recreating that based on that felt sense that they got. And the other thing I guess I would say is that there's sort of this interplay of the system and the individual work that need to go together and that it's very hard to decouple that. So if you're not sort of on your own personal journey and investigating your own beliefs and your own projections and all of those things, it's going to be very hard to step into something new. And at the same time, if you're in a system that keeps reinforcing those old beliefs, even if you're doing a lot of work on yourself, it's going to be super hard. So it's trying to find sort of these stepping stones and finding a good combination of that personal journey that you're on and then putting yourself in context that will support it. So yeah, I think that many people are able to get these experiences now also thanks to online connectivity, different communities, things that people have been trying out. Like I've been talking to some people working in very traditional systems that have been joining Dows and just doing that on the side, right, like once in a while spending some time in it. And I think that's been giving an interesting way for people that are still embedded in other traditional systems to sort of get a glimpse and start experimenting and feeling what that's like. Yeah, I love that. Thank you so much.
[ 0:34:16.000 ---> 0:35:06.000 ] Speaker E : And I'd be remiss if I didn't say that I love your list of four myths. And right now I'm leading a research team that's focused on what is leadership in Dows so specifically for the Dow space. But one of the things that it's very nerdy scientific. I'll throw one of our essays in the chat. But one of the things that it boils down to for me, and I love how you're talking about embodiment is that you can have a very scientific approach and have it be in boxes and things, but often it's just this shift in recognizing your own worth and recognizing other people's worth. And so to me, any leadership development program worth its salt gets really at this notion of human worth. And so, yeah, I just love what you shared. And thank you very much.
[ 0:35:06.000 ---> 0:35:14.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, thank you. Lisa, I'm curious to hear more about your research and what you're yeah, would love to see the paper.
[ 0:35:14.000 ---> 0:35:16.000 ] Speaker F : Michelle, over to you.
[ 0:35:19.000 ---> 0:35:39.000 ] Speaker G : Lisa's question gets so much to the meat of this shift and within the first myth. My experience is that so many folks who are in positional power and there's a decision being made to try to move into self management.
[ 0:35:40.000 ---> 0:35:41.000 ] Speaker B : That the fear.
[ 0:35:41.000 ---> 0:36:18.000 ] Speaker G : Is that if I see a risk, I'll get voted over. Because we're so in the voting mindset. If we're not in the command and control, then it's this voting idea because that's what I do as a leader. If I don't like what somebody is saying, I just roll over it or I persuade them out of it. So it's that shift from, oh, yeah, my needs won't be ignored either. The perception that I see the risks that I see will not my objections will not be ignored either. I have consent.
[ 0:36:18.000 ---> 0:36:19.000 ] Speaker B : Right.
[ 0:36:19.000 ---> 0:37:24.000 ] Speaker G : So this is very tied into this idea of consent, I believe, self management, though, I'm curious about these Dows. It's a little off. I'm looking a little about Dows and I'm like, but y'all are still voting. Tell me more. Back to this topic of Lisa, though. And yes, as Francesca says, because what I was thinking, my response to your question was it happens decision by decision, experience by experience and decision by decision. And it happens for anybody, positional leader or not. When my objection, the decision is adjusted to meet it without me having to necessarily everybody needing to believe it or understand it, but just we adapt it to my objection. When that happens, then what I say often is consent happens in the body. An objection happens in the body. Sometimes it takes us a minute to.
[ 0:37:24.000 ---> 0:37:27.000 ] Speaker B : Come up with the.
[ 0:37:29.000 ---> 0:38:45.000 ] Speaker G : Logical justification for why I'm out of consent, and then we can but it happens in the body. So this embodiment idea is very clear because our body knows when we're sensing a risk. I was like, yeah, that idea of it's decision by decision, and let's try it a little bit by little bit. And it's also true that if a positional leader is uncomfortable enough and they have enough power, they will tip the tables on the whole change towards self management unless they're really supported in keeping their agreement not to. And so how that support happens can be coaching, can be other ways, but gentle but firm reminders by the group, whatever. But it's hard not to use positional power if you have it when you sense a risk. I think that's complete for me.
[ 0:38:45.000 ---> 0:41:08.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, that resonates quite a bit. And especially the crux of it or something that I've been thinking a lot lately has been about how the ability to essentially to have an influence without being understood and how fundamentally important that is for the whole system to work. Because we're so much operating in systems where we need to convince everyone else that what I'm sensing is valid, so that is respected. And if the other people cannot understand it, if they cannot agree with my definition of the problem and my definition of the solution and my definition of the challenges or the risks, then they're not going to do anything about it. And it gets discounted because it's been coming very much from this rational mind and we've been trying at Arendao, or at least I've been trying to nudge us towards that. If you're sensing it is true, I don't necessarily need to understand it for me to respect it and take it into account. I'm just going to accept that there is something there and the more you can express that and we can unpack it together the better because maybe it's a bigger risk or something and otherwise we're not going to get the full signal. But trying to start from the assumption that there is always some truth in it. But I find it tremendously hard to live by it in one degree especially as you're saying, when we are afraid, it's so easy to use positional power and when we need to move fast, when there is trade offs and things like that. Especially when there is a big trade off and we feel that someone is trying to push for something but they haven't seen the whole picture. I find it super hard to engage with that but I find it especially hard to communicate about it. Quite often when I try to tell people this they almost feel I'm trying to shut them down because they were offering a suggestion and I'm like stop suggesting. I don't want you to suggest, I want you to propose. If you're sensing something, go and fix it and I'll support you but I don't want you to try to convince me to fix it because I don't have the headspace nor the time to fix it and you'll maybe never convince me like my head is too full so you're sensing it. That is true and valid but I really struggle to get the point across and sometimes people resent it also like I'm stressed and going blunt and moving fast in discord. It doesn't help but yeah, it sounds.
[ 0:41:08.000 ---> 0:41:16.000 ] Speaker B : A bit like those are people that are coming to ask you for permission when you would like them to be asking for advice or input.
[ 0:41:17.000 ---> 0:41:39.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, exactly. I'm like just put it there and ask even everyone else to give you feedback to refine it but don't bring it as a suggestion because what you're asking is for other people to validate it. You don't need other people to validate it. You do need other people to add their perspectives so it becomes a fuller picture that is better, more complete, more nuanced and so on.
[ 0:41:41.000 ---> 0:43:13.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I definitely think it's interesting also, Michelle, what you were saying, because just most of the groups that I've seen, when they start transitioning to self management, they really fall very strongly into this pattern of voting on everything and wanting to always convince everybody. And my understanding is that the Dao space has gone through that lesson fairly quickly. I don't know exactly how most of the Dows are looking at that now, but it definitely felt like at first like oh my God, really? Are people voting on every small thing? This can't be like we already know that this isn't a good idea. I think there's something about the setup also of being so asynchronous. And I mean, everything you were just describing, Daniel, like, all of those capacities that one needs to be able to actually discern, like, what am I sensing? And do I need some input from other people, or do I maybe need a bigger group to maybe do some kind of sense making on it? All of that is very hard to do when you're completely remote and just avatars. Right? And I do think that that is the reality, or has been the reality of many Dows that they are starting to maybe focus a bit more on the human connection part. But I personally have a hard time seeing how you're going to really get to the level of operating that you need to thrive and be successful if you don't have more of an investment in those relationships and in the communication between people.
[ 0:43:14.000 ---> 0:43:20.000 ] Speaker G : This is very grounded in a very ecosystems.
[ 0:43:23.000 ---> 0:43:24.000 ] Speaker B : Theory.
[ 0:43:25.000 ---> 0:44:58.000 ] Speaker G : This is how we operate as natural beings in the world. That's important to remember. And I remember I also just have to tell a funny little story of one little meeting I was at locally that was in the Dow space and I was asking about the governance and I was asking about how that was set up because it seemed like it was a compatible thing and all the values were there. And then they were talking about voting and I was like and I asked questions and then I realized I would say I got youth splend. I was treated as if I can't really know what I'm talking about because I'm older and this is all new stuff and we've got this and I was like, okay. And this was a couple of years ago. So it's interesting to hear that they've gone through the Dow space. I'm curious because I do think it's important and then finally I'll stop. But to say I think it's hard for us because we're the generation that's making the transition and future generations will have experienced these collaborative spaces more and it won't be so hard I think, as it is for us to wrestle with all this. Thank you for the space.
[ 0:44:58.000 ---> 0:45:00.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, Dee, please.
[ 0:45:01.000 ---> 0:47:30.000 ] Speaker D : I was going to I was just exactly going to say that. So I almost feel like I raised my hand too late, which is that there's this kind of in my mind, this leg of the race where we are in the evolution of transformative decision making and transformative governance. Because I think when you were saying earlier, I wish people would just give a proposal and I think, speaking as someone myself who has struggled with when you get that space, I think there was a really francisco there was a point where you said something that was like, I can't rephrase it, but it was perfectly set. But it was one of these things where as we're doing this, people, networks, spaces are just coming into we're so used to not being in our range of tolerance in our bodies and what we do to maladaptively deal with power as it's presented or not bringing forward proposals. It's a habit and it's very learned and it's very conditioned over time. So when people have to express, they're not always able to articulate, like there's something and I don't know what. And then obviously, if there are deadlines in time and all these things, it's like, just tell me what it is, make a proposal. I don't know, because I can't name it, but I know it's there, you know what I mean? And it's like and so it's the time factor of helping people because I'm finding I'm in spaces where I'm having to really slow down and help people to tease it out. People do that with me as well. Right, that teasing it out. And I feel like that is a part of the practice that we're sharing in this generation of now, like where we are I think maybe 20 years from now it'll be so people will be a lot more comfortable. But we have to recognize that the leadership that we are living in right now, or the times we're living in, this was like 200, 300 conditioning, you know what I mean? And so we are actually in a wave of change anyway, I don't know if that made any sense, I just want to say it.
[ 0:47:31.000 ---> 0:50:23.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, I mean, I think that also really that echoes with the sort of importance of coaching, like peer coaching in self managing contexts, and it's that helping each other get clear, needing a thinking partner. I find myself doing that all the time with my colleagues that we're all sort of helping each other tune into, what do we think about this, what do we think about that? And it seems like such an important exercise and practice to be doing, as you said, Dee, so, yeah, I think that's quite a muscle that we need to train. I think I really wanted to just bring in this question, bring back this question. That guy posted earlier on just because I know that Peter is here and it might be interesting, this question about Source, because basically so I think there's going to be a session in the future that will dive more into this concept, the specific role, this idea of a source being a role in any kind of initiative that a person is holding. And so the question that guy was asking was how does this relate to leadership? And I was really just thinking about this the other day, so I was sort of curious. I have my current sense making of it and I was just curious how that lands. And what you also think, Peter, if I may indulge you, because basically the idea is that the source is the person who starts any initiative and that they have a certain special connection with that initiative and with its vision and where it needs to go. And I guess to me, in a way, the source is definitely a role that definitely is a leadership role. Like the person who's the source is definitely doing leadership, but I definitely think that they are not the only person leading and that it's almost like sometimes the source is taking on leadership capacities and sometimes not. To me it seems like it's almost like one of the things that a source will do is step into certain types of leadership. And that if we look at the full circle leadership diagram there, there's also this really great thing called the Source Compass that has some of these within this as well, which is that based on the context I, as the source am going to sort of pick different ways of showing up that are going to be helpful to this initiative advancing. But that doesn't mean that the source is the leader and that there could be many, many other people leading as well. Maybe their own sub initiatives, but also just maybe eyes the source and deciding, like, right now, it's not the right thing for me to be doing any leading and I'm just going to leave space for others to do that. To me, that feels quite aligned or that's sort of how it makes sense to me. But yeah, I'm curious if you have any thoughts on that.
[ 0:50:23.000 ---> 0:53:07.000 ] Speaker F : Okay. Hello everybody and thank you, Francesca. I've loved everything you've said so far and I follow completely what you've just said now. And actually in terms of the way you're contextualizing leadership, I agree entirely. And of course it depends being active or not active as the leader depends on the particular moment and the particular situation. So the source of the initiative as a whole will spend a lot of time actually not doing anything or not in overt activity. But I'd like to give in terms of the work I've been looking at the way I've been looking at leadership, I'd like to give another context to this too because I've adopted in my work, a definition of leadership from one of the leaders in the field of sociocracy, french leader, I would say, of sociocracy. And his definition of leadership, of a leader is the role of leadership is to look after and develop the people in your organization or your enterprise. And I've kind of adopted his definition of leadership. You may say I'm avoiding the question in a sense, but I make the distinction between leadership in that sense and the role of source, the role of leader and the role of source. Because the role of source and what the source is concerned with is not specifically developing people, it's manifesting vision. And I find that very helpful to make that distinction because there are times that you can embody both roles and there are times when it's really important to develop the people and be in relationship and develop people in the organization. But there are times when it's really important not to be doing that and just to say, forget that the job has to be done right now and this is really what's important. And that's the role of source, actually to make sure that things are done at the moment they're supposed to be done. So I just add in that little shift or change in the context in terms of my response.
[ 0:53:09.000 ---> 0:53:09.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 0:53:09.000 ---> 0:53:14.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you, clarence Tyler, if you like.
[ 0:53:15.000 ---> 0:53:15.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah.
[ 0:53:15.000 ---> 0:55:16.000 ] Speaker H : I had some interesting flashbacks that were going on, right. Because I've spent the vast majority of 15 years or so in middle management trying to be the enabler of leaders, right? Trying to bring out the qualities in others that I would like to see them have so that I personally wasn't always reliant to be the one to make those. Right. When you were talking about I don't want to hear your suggestion, Daniel. I would make it a proposal, right? Or bring a prototype, get a peer that feels the same way as you. And it really comes down to how do you best create the culture to where all the people that are in the organization feel safe to be able to do that, right, and don't need to. The last organization I was in, my general manager of the location we were at was an ex Army Ranger. Nice guy, but also very masculine in that per se, right. And very conservative organization in hierarchy and progression and things like that, right? So trying to bring a more balanced, feminine, masculine, energy approach as the leader who has to deal with that, showcasing by example, being able to be the one that's listening and hearing and then almost giving therapy, but then having to pivot to be able to make the decision of what has to be done at that. My my question for you, Francesca, is, when you guys have been doing this with organizations, do you guys see more success starting at the executive level down with how you guys look to implement, or have you guys tried, like, an inside out approach where you kind of tell leadership, like, hey, this starts with those that are administering to the people? We have to be able to have leaders that can be full circle. And if you don't have that, you're going to learn by watching full circle in action and then have to adhere to how that looks, because sometimes it takes an extra hour or two out of your day to be able to be a full circle practitioner and not just an authoritarian.
[ 0:55:16.000 ---> 0:56:09.000 ] Speaker B : Right? Yeah, I'll try to keep it short because I know that we're almost at time here, but I would say that the short answer is you really need both. You can't do this without the leadership being on board. That's just impossible. But I know that different organizations also work differently on this, but in terms of greater than we really work with everybody on developing the organization and transforming it. So it's something that's happening at all levels. And the people are usually running their own experiments and trying to basically develop the structures in a way that makes sense for them. Because we really think that there's not like one template that you can just put on or an operating system you can install, but that it's something that they need to develop and take ownership of. So you're really needing to work at all those levels and just having one or the other is definitely not enough.
[ 0:56:10.000 ---> 0:57:39.000 ] Speaker A : Yeah, well, unfortunately, we're over time, so I'm going to cut the conversation here. I'm sharing three links in the chat. The first one is a quick summary of Arundao, but if you'd like to continue this conversation, you can join our Discord. The link is at the bottom of the first document that I share is the Intelligent Globe link. It's like a long link, and there in Discord, we can continue this conversation. Also, if you want to have access to the recording of this event, it will be published roughly in a week or so in YouTube and you can see other events. And finally, there is the Twitter as well. Feel free to tweet and tag it and we can continue the conversation on Twitter as well if anyone wants to. Finally, if anyone else would like to offer a talk at any point or a prompt for one of these conversations, just send me a message and we can continue. These are obviously big topics. As Francesca was quoting someone that was talking about it in the 1920s with tremendous amount of insight. We're not going to solve it today, and this is not going to be the end of it. We're perhaps at the beginning of a journey hopefully we have. So thank you, everyone. Really fantastic conversation. It was a pleasure for me. I'm going to leave it open a few more seconds, but start to close now. Francesca, if you have any closing words, over to you.
[ 0:57:40.000 ---> 0:57:51.000 ] Speaker B : Yeah, just thank you all for showing up for this interesting topic. And thanks Daniel for the invitation. It's always a pleasure to talk about this. Great.
[ 0:57:51.000 ---> 0:57:54.000 ] Speaker A : Thank you, everyone. Have a lovely restaurant.
[ 0:57:54.000 ---> 0:57:55.000 ] Speaker B : Thanks, everyone.
